Share this on WhatsApp



 
In its determination to contain the menace of kidnapping, the Department of State Service (DSS) in collaboration with the military, have arrested suspected abductors and killers of the traditional ruler of Adara Chiefdom, HRH Maiwada Galadima.
In a release seen by National Daily, the DSS, the alleged five kidnapers whose operation span between Kaduna and Katsina States were arrested on the 25th October in Riga Chikun, Kaduna State.
The five arrested kidnappers, according to the DSS are: Isa Ahmadu (Gang Leader), Suleiman UMAR (Ransom negotiator), Ibrahim Mallam, Ishaku Saidu (aka Ishe) and Mansur (Mallam).
After preliminary investigation, two other members of the gang, Muhammadu Ibrahim and Muhammed Isa were also apprehended. Those arrested were Dan-Alhaji Dan-MINERI, Yusuf Khalif and Musa (Mallam).
Similarly, on 5th November, 2018, the tactical team of the Service, in collaboration with the military, arrested Muhammed AMINU, a suspected gunrunner and his accomplice, Dare Okunwola (aka Boda) at Lere LGA and Agindi, Jos in Kaduna and Plateau States respectively.
It said during a search of Okunwola’s residence, several ammunitions and eight (8) AK-47 rifles were recovered. “On the same date, at Toungo LGA, Adamawa State, Abbas Abubakar (aka Sambo) a suspected Improvised Explosives Device (IED) expert for the Islamic State in West Africa (ISWA) was apprehended.”
Other arrests were those made on 15th October, 2018, at North Bank, Makurdi, Benue State where renowned cultists, Yakubu MOHAMMED and Joseph ANDOAASIN were apprehended. Cartridges and a locally made pistol were recovered from them. Also on the same date, at Ikot Akpan Dem, Ukanafun LGA, Akwa Ibom State, Otu EKONG, a serial kidnapper was arrested. At the start of October, the trio of Abdulhamid ISA, Adamu ADAGIRI and Nuhu AHMED, who are members of a kidnap gang that operates between Kogi and Edo States were arrested in the state.”
According to investigations, the DSS have so far uncovered leads that will enable the Service and other sister agencies to address the menace of kidnaping in the country.
Meanwhile, the DSS said relative peace has since returned to Kaduna State after the disturbances that followed Galadima’s violent abduction and gruesome murder.
“It is to be noted that concerted efforts are being made to address the resurgence of organized criminal activities in the North-West. Consequently, the Service has arrested high profile kidnappers and notorious elements in different locations of the State and beyond.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment