Share this on WhatsApp
The Nasarawa State FA Chairman Mohammed Alkali  who doubles as the Chairman of the Nigeria Nationwide League One ( NLO) and an executive member of the NFF, state his commitment to the Youth Sport Federation Of Nigeria  (YSFON)

Mohammed Alkali who is popular known as SK made this statement in the state FA office Tuesday afternoon when the Nasarawa state chapter of the YSFON came visiting to inform the Nasarawa State FA office of the u13 competition which is set to commence on  2nd December, 2018 tagged  ” *Street to Street, Door to Door U13 tournament “* organized by the YSFON Lafia Local government Chapter .

 Alkali in his speech,  promised to support the YSFON 100% . It will be the first time in a very long time an age grade tournament was organized in Lafia, which became very difficult to fish out the talent that are in abundance in Lafia.

  Alkali revealed that the coming of the YSFON U13 in Lafia,  it will go a long way in the development of football in Lafia and he went on to task the YSFON to produce quality and genuine U13’s and u15’s that will give the state good representation at the National Level.

In Appreciation to the Nasarawa State FA for showing support , the chairman  YSFON Nasarawa State Chapter Suleiman Usman Bako thanks Mohammed Alkali  and his baord members for accepting such a proposal without hesitation.  Suleiman went on to assured the FA they will not disappoint and will carry out football development at the grassroot diligently in the state.

Hajiya Safiya who is also the treasurer of the YSFON at the National level,  informed the state FA office it big challenge , which is funding and it has become an obstacle that has slowed down YSFON activities in the state.

In response to Hajiya Safiya’s plea, the state FA Chairman promised to support the YSFON financially . Alkali i Said if the FA can support the old timers going for competitions, why won’t the state FA support the future of football in Nasarawa State. With that,  the FA pledged it full financial support to YSFON.

The YSFON entourage that came visiting include Suleiman Bako Usman,  who is the Nasarawa State YSFON chairman , Nidan.  M.  Maiyaki  Vice Chairman , Adamu Yusuf  asst. sec.

 Others are Nasarawa YSFON  organizing secretary Adamu Umar,  Ibrahim Yahaya Sabo YSFON coach and Hajiya Safiya M Mohammed  who is the National Treasurer of YSFON.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment