Some parents and students in Abuja on Tuesday urged the federal government to speedily intervene and resolve the ongoing strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU).
The parents, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja, expressed worry over the constant strikes embarked upon by the university lecturers’ union.
On Monday, the federal government and ASUU had a meeting to resolve their agreement in order to suspend the lecturers’ strike.
However, the meeting that reportedly started at about 5 p.m. at the Federal Ministry of Education ended in another deadlock.
A parent, Mrs Eunice John, said: “It is a pity what our government and ASUU are doing to our children who have been forced once again out of school.
‎
“We know that many of the leaders have their children either studying in private universities or in other schools overseas, that is why they can always keep our children out of school.
“Many parents are struggling to pay school fees of their wards to keep them in school and out of the streets, yet these children are forced to come home and some now engage in various vices.
“That is not the only problem, when their studies are disrupted, it affects them; imagine those who were in the middle of writing examinations having that flow disrupted.”
‎John pleaded with the federal government and ASUU to reach an agreement that would end the strike and ultimately help improve the education sector.
Mr David Onilede, another parent, said the strike was worrisome, adding that it would affect the productivity of the students.
“I am worried at the sustained strike by ASUU. As a parent, the capacity of our children for productive interaction with their studies is being jeopardised.
“I do not trust the federal government’s negotiating team; it seems that it is fixated on commercialising education at the tertiary level; ASUU should resist this. ‎
“ASUU too, should be more flexible in their obsession with earned allowances; it portrays their struggles as selfish,” he said.
Esther Ajayi, a student ‎at the Nasarawa State University, also said the strike had reduced her morale.
‎”I paid my fees for admission for a master’s degree programme and was excited and ready to go to school, however, this strike has dampened my hope of finishing within the stipulated time.
“We want the federal government to dialogue with ASUU to end this continuous strike.
‎
“It is not only sad that children of the masses try to beat all odds to be the best they can be, but more worrisome is that the government of the day plays politics with the education system.
‎”Nigeria prides herself as the giant of Africa, but finds it difficult to resolve issues that are beneficial to the populace, we want the strike called off soonest,” she said.
ASUU began this indefinite strike on November 4. Specifically, ASUU demanded improved funding of public universities based on agreements reached with the federal government in 2009.
Some of the demands by the union are that the federal government should nominate another chairman of the government renegotiating team of the 2009 ASUU/Federal Government Agreement to replace Dr Wale Babalakin.
Other issues bothering the union are the non-payment of earned allowance, funding of revitalisation of the Nigerian universities, implementation of needs assessment report, and poor funding of state universities, among others.

			
			Post Views: 
			131