Share this on WhatsApp



IPOB leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has instructed the organisation’s lawyers to file a case of international fraud, forgery and deception against WAEC, before a Ghanaian court.
The separatist group is challenging the council’s recent attestation of President Muhhamadu Buhari’s West African School Certificate, WASC.
In a statement by the IPOB media and publicity secretary, Comrade Emma Powerful, yesterday relayed the broadcast of the IPOB leader made through Radio Biafra.
According to Kanu, there was no WASC in 1961.
“How is it that Buhari’s result attestation is being issued under West Africa Senior School Certificate, a system not yet in existence in 1961? How can an institution like WAEC that was not in existence in 1961 be attesting to the certificate of examination they did not conduct? By involving themselves in this fraud, they have rendered every result or certificate they ever issued null and void.
“Has anyone seen the passport photo of the president when he was 19 years old in 1961? He even sat for Hausa language as a subject in the 1961 WAEC examination certificate, when Hausa language was only introduced into Nigerian curriculum in 1975.
“Also, in the previous 2015 result submitted and accepted by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, there was Mathematics in it, which implied that Buhari sat for Mathematics.
But in the latest 2018 WASC, he said, the result presented for the purposes of fulfilling INEC requirements, has no Mathematics.
“It is either the 2015 certificate is fake or the latest version is. Either way, WAEC, the Aso Rock and all those present during the presentation of the fake certificate should be arrested immediately for fraud, forgery and deception.
“WAEC can never issue certificates, whether attestation certificate or confirmation certificate to a candidate in examination it didn’t conduct.
“WAEC never conducted exams in 1961, it was University of Cambridge! This is the same WAEC that said repeatedly in 2015 it couldn’t find Buhari’s record.
“This is the reason I instructed IPOB lawyers to file a case of international fraud, forgery and deception against WAEC before Ghanaian courts. Whoever runs WAEC or responsible for this heinous crime should be tried and if found guilty, jailed.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment