Share this on WhatsApp



 
A House of Representatives member representing Ajaokuta Fedral Constituency in Kogi state, Lawal Idris has been accused of forging his West African Examination Council (WAEC) certificate.
According to the Police who have commenced investigation into the alleged forgery, a House of Representatives aspirants under the All Progressives Congress in Kogi state, Mr. Yusuf Balogun, had petitioned the Inspector-General of Police over the alleged forgery by Honourable Idris.
The petitioner had alleged irregularities, inconsistencies and forgery in the lawmaker’s certificate and documents.
While confirming the story, a senior Police officer who is involved in the investigation said the lawmaker was invited by the Police for investigation.
The lawmaker, National Daily gathered, is expected to report to the Nigeria Police Intelligence Response Unit at the Old Abattoir in Garki Area of Abuja for interrogation.
Part of the petition titled ‘Petition Against Irregularities, Inconsistencies and Forgery In Lawal Idris Certificate And Documents,’ dated October 18, 2018, was acknowledged by the office of the IGP on Oct 24, 2018 and obtained by newsmen read in part, “Idris in a sworn affidavit with INEC in form CF 001 in 2014 claimed to be born in the United Kingdom while in an attached declaration of age to the said form, he was born in Ajaokuta.
”Idris is bearing five different names in his various documents but swore a statutory affidavit saying he was bearing three different names: Lawal Muhammadu Idris, Lawal Alhaji Idris, and Lawal Muhammed Idris.”
The petitioner further accused Idris of forging his West African Examination certificate and tax receipt.
“Whereas in his APC membership card and State of Origin Form, he is bearing Lawal Idris, in one of his 2014 tax receipt he is bearing Idris Lawal; Idris forged his WAEC result. The WAEC result he used in the affidavit sworn with INEC in year 2014 where he passed six subjects were forged and was contested in court by the PDP in 2015,” Balogun further alleged.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment