Share this on WhatsApp



Kylian Mbappe is earning an unbelievable amount at Paris Saint-Germain, and an exclusive report has also detailed the “special requests” the club had to refuse.
According to an exclusive report in Der Spiegel, the France forward was denied many of his more outlandish demands when signing for the club.
“Never before has a 19-year-old earned more at Paris Saint-Germain than Kylian Mbappe,” the report noted.
“Yet the club also denied numerous special requests made by the highly talented striker.
The report cites documents provided by the whistleblower source Football Leaks in revealing the ‘special requests’ made by Mbappe – “one for whom enough never seems to be enough, a young man who hasn’t been down to earth for some time now”.
The Football Leaks documents reportedly indicate that Mbappe nearly switched to Real Madrid when he was courted by PSG during the summer of 2017.
“The team was extremely interested in signing him, offering a transfer fee of 180 million euros,” the report explained. “But his father Wilfrid was apparently worried about possibly unbeatable competition up front: The team already had [Gareth] Bale, [Karim] Benzema and [Cristiano] Ronaldo on its roster.
“At the beginning of August, Mbappe told Monaco that he had decided to sign with Paris Saint-Germain.”
As a result of this decision to join PSG, the report recounts the money demanded by Mbappe and his father, then the staggering additional requests.
Now for the demands, all of which were reportedly refused by PSG:
•If he were to win the Ballon d’Or, he wanted to automatically become the highest-paid player on the PSG payroll – meaning he would be making even more than Neymar.
•The team must make a private jet available to him for 50 hours per year (He did, however, receive an allowance of 30,000 euros per month so he can pay his personal staff: a caretaker, a driver and a bodyguard).
•Monetary compensation, amid Financial Fair Play concerns, should PSG be banned from the Champions League, a penalty reserved for the most severe violations of the FFP rules.
•Wilfrid Mbappe to be present during team practices, and for him to conduct additional training sessions with his son at the PSG facility.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment