Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Afenifere, A Yoruba socio-cultural group in the South West, has handed down one year suspension on the candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the September governorship election in Osun State, Iyiola Omisore, for his support and alliance with the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the governorship rerun election in Osun State after the manipulation of the electoral process to declare the election inclusive after the PDP candidate had won.
The Afenifere, at its monthly meeting in October at Akure, the Ondo State, declared the suspension of Omisore, explaining that his action ran contrary to the position of the group on the election.
National Daily gathered that the group took the decision to place one year suspension on Omisore at the meeting for violating Afenifere’s directive which affected the outcome of Osun election. The suspension order was contained in a communique issued at the end of the meeting which was read by Korede Duyile.
National Daily gathered that Meanwhile, Omisore had explained that he was not ‘directly’ responsible or the decision to form an alliance with the APC during the governorship rerun election on September 27, 2018.
Omisore in a statement explained: “It was the Osun Social Democratic Party (SDP) that passed a resolution for a coalition agreement with the All Progressives Congress (APC), which is the party’s supremacy in decision making.
“The Afenifere’s action is at variance with the reality on the ground as far as the party politics in Osun State is concerned.
“I’m unaware of the pan-Yoruba group’s directives (then) because we also have bonafide, notable and active APC members in Afenifere.
“The interest of Osun SDP was the development of the state, and of the two parties involved in the rerun election, it was the APC that agreed to implement the SDP’s manifestos, the reason the decision was made.
“In as much as I’m a member of Afenifere, SDP members in Osun State are not necessarily members of Afenifere. Osun politics is local and I acted in consonance with the position and the will of Osun SDP.
“However, I’m yet to be informed on the so-called Afenifere’s suspension, which as far as I’m concerned bypassed the principle of fair hearing.”
Omisore, SDP governorship candidate was in third position in the September 22 inconclusive election; he chose to support and aligns with the APC, for the rerun election when the PDP had marginal 353 votes lead. His alliance gave victory to APC at last.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment