Share this on WhatsApp



 
A pro-democracy group, Concerned Nigerians, says it has concrete evidence on how some agents of the ruling All Progressives Congress (AP) and officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) are planning to rig the 2019 general election.
In a statement on Thursday, Deji Adeyanju, convener of the group, said a “reliable source” has informed the group how the commission’s e-portal has been compromised, as it no longer shows location, time and date of collation of results.
“We wish to bring to the notice of Nigerians and the international community of a deliberate plot to electronically manipulate the outcome of the 2019 elections by some agents of the APC led Government as exemplified in the recently concluded Osun elections,” the statement read.
“We are worried that the INEC Chairman will agree to meet with the Chief of Staff to the president, one of those working tirelessly to rig the 2019 elections.
“We have been reliable informed by our sources within INEC that the E-Collation portal of the Commission has been tampered with as it no longer shows location, time and date of collation of results.
“The E-Collation process remains the most potent way to end rigging of election results in the country. The validity of results of the 2019 elections will be tied to the credibility of the E-Collation portal especially the imputing of results real-time from polling Units across the country.
“Therefore, if the E-Collation will not reflect time, date and location where results are entered from; it means the outcome of the elections will not be credible. The implication of this is that, anyone can enter results from any location, at any time and on any date.
“Another issue of concern is the unrestricted access to the E-Collation portal given to the 12 National Commissioners. We know for a fact that the correct system at INEC is that the commission shared the E-Collation portal 3 states per commissioner. This was how Amina Zakari was able to view election result collation in real-time and divulge same to her accomplices in APC to help ensure that the Osun State Governorship election was inconclusive.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment