Share this on WhatsApp


By Esther Egbe

Emmanuel Deutcsh, a Cameronian coach, has expressed his intention to try out a new challenge with a new Nigeria Professional Football League, NPFL side after a remarkable season with Abia Warriors last season,National Daily learnt.

Deutcsh took over Abia Warriors few days to the commencement of last NPFL season and steered the club to fifth when the league was abruptly ended.

The former Akwa United and FC IfeanyiUbah coach believed exceptional footballers are abound in Nigeria noted that he would try out his coaching experience elsewhere other than the South East.

“At first, it was difficult because I joined Abia Warriors when the season was about to start, I met the players on ground and the structure, so I had lots to do to make the team looked as I wanted, but along the line we manage to stabilize and I’m happy with how it went even though my target was to end in top three but I’m still ok how it went through.

“I’ve been enjoying my time working in Nigeria, its a big country with lots of facilities that can push you to work hard as a coach, there are standards here in football, talented players to work with and great people, if those standards can be worked on very well, Nigeria will be a more great country in Africa.

“I’m always delighted to have my philosophy of football working here and that’s why I’m looking forward to another experience with another club in the NPFL, I’m leaving my next destination to the hands of my manager and I’m sure I will br at a nice place to work again, may be a new adventure in another region of Nigeria, we will see about that soon, for now I’m enjoying my rest in Calabar (Cross River State) after I came back from Cameron,” he said.

Asked about why he ended his stint with the ‘Ochendo Boys’ as Abia Warriors are fondly called after turning around the status of the club positively last season, Deutch said it was his intention to seek new challenge in another part of Nigeria which he believe will disclosed soon.

“I didn’t have any problem at Abia Warriors, I just felt that I needed a fresh challenge after last season I think I should try new place, the club is great with a wonderful set of people, passionate about football and the chairman (Chief Emeka Inyama) is a great man.


I’m trying to understand Nigerian football from every part of the country so I’m moving to another zone to check how football is there,” he said.

Deutcsh has managed a number of clubs in Nigeria since moving from his native Cameroon in 2005.

He has handled clubs like Heartland FC (twice), Akwa United, JUTH FC of Jos, Unicem Rovers of Calabar and FC IfeanyiUbah.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment