Share this on WhatsApp



The APC national chairman was back in Nigeria Friday, after about a week’s stay abroad, and a long week of rumour and speculations about his invitation by the DSS.
In an interactive session with editors in Abuja, Adams Oshiomhole, explained why he was questioned by the DSS, the reason for his travel abroad
He told his audience he went to visit his sick wife Iara in the US, and from their he winged his way to the UK to meet party’s national leader Bola Tinubu, a major stake behind the APC chairman.
According to him, he “saw DSS only once and it was a conversation, not an arrest or detention”.
Oshiomhole said he was billed to travel abroad on Monday but postponed the trip for a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari before he left Tuesday.
“The conversation centred on APC primaries. The question now is whether or not it is the DSS job to interfere in a political party’s issues. And if there’s an allegation of corruption, it is the responsibility of EFCC and ICPC.”
He added that the DSS did not ask him to return the next day, contrary to media reports.
Again, he countered the administrative bail report by the DSS, and that Kogi Gov. Yahaya Bello did not come to pick him up from the DSS office.
“I was the one who called Yahaya Bello and he came but I drove home in my own car,” he noted.
To the PDP which said he had run away, he gave a word:
“What would they have said if it was the PDP chairman that was invited by DSS, for instance over the dollar bazaar at their Port Harcourt primary?
“They would have said democracy is under threat and would have fired a letter to the UN as they often ridicule themselves.”
But he insisted “a few important members of APC may be conniving with PDP because they preferred the impunity of the PDP era”.
Four governors in the ruling APC and some lawmakers are angry with him for frustrating their personal interest and those of their loyalists.
Govs. Ibikunle Amosun, Rochas Okorocha, Abdulazziz Yari, and Rotimi Akeredolu are among few important party men at a stand-off with him.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment