Share this on WhatsApp

Opposition demands apology from Presidency




The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Sunday remarked that public demonstrations that the Presidency may have procured a forged West African Examination Council (WAEC) Certificate Attestation and Confirmation for President Muhammadu Buhari is a huge smear on the country’s integrity and the Office of the President.
PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement in Abuja, indicated that the party laments that the development has turned the country into a laughing stock in the West African sub-region and the entire global community, as the President is now being mentioned as beneficiary of a duplicitous act.

The PDP stated that, “most appalling is that Mr. President’s handlers have succeeded in dragging a reputable institution as WAEC into public disrepute and opprobrium, as Nigerians are quick to demonstrate marks of forgery in the attestation issued by the examination body.”

The Opposition Party pointed out that, “A check on the attestation clearly shows that it does not have the “Original Certificate Number”, the key authentication feature in all genuine attestations by WAEC.

“Instead, a “non-applicable” is entered, indicating that the beneficiary does not have a certificate to be attested to, thus, rendering the said attestation unauthenticated, fake and of no effect.”

PDP further remarked: “Also, the attestation is for West African Senior School Certificate, which President Buhari couldn’t have sat for, given that the Senior School Certificate Examination was established only in the late 1980s.”

The PDP argued: “Does it not smack of high level scam that the same WAEC, which, in 2015, confirmed that it does not have records of President Buhari’s certificate, now had to send officials to present Mr. President with an attestation that has no original certificate number?

“Moreover, by WAEC rules, attestations are only issued in the case of missing or destroyed certificate. Why then should the exam body issue an attestation to President Buhari, whose certificate, he claimed are with the military and not missing or destroyed?

“If not intended to circumvent the system and deceive Nigerians, why did President Buhari’s handlers chose to write to WAEC to issue an attestation when he, as the Commander-in-Chief, has the powers to direct the military to make available his credentials for all to see.

“What the unauthenticated attestation has shown is that Mr. President does not have a WAEC certificate; we urge his handlers to humbly so admit and apologize to the nation, having exhausted all gimmicks to mislead Nigerians.”

PDP admonished that the Buhari Presidency should know that there is no way the truth can be suppressed. “In fact, the current disagreement between the Presidency and WAEC over who initiated the attestation deal is also very revealing,” the Opposition Party noted.

“Finally, while the PDP urges WAEC to redeem its image by handing over all its officials involved in the deal to the INTERPOL for investigation and prosecution, it also calls on the Nigeria Police to immediately invite Mr. President’s handlers for questioning over this huge national embarrassment,” the statement read.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment