Share this on WhatsApp



 
Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State on Friday shunned the State House of Assembly investigating the $5 million bribery scam on contracts kick-back. The governor declined appearing before the House Committee appointed by the House to investigate alleged $5 million which video clip went viral on the social media.
National Daily gathered that Governor Ganduje detailed the Commissioner for Information, Muhammad Garba, to represent him and defend him in the leaked video which the publisher was earlier in the House to confirm the video is genuine and not doctored.
The Information Commissioner had after submitting a written statement to the Chairman of the Investigation Committee, Bappa Dan’agundi Garba, decried that the bribery allegation was damaging to the governor’s personality.
“His Excellency has categorically and unapologetically denied collection of bribe as alleged by Daily Nigerian. His Excellency has not collected and will never collect bribe. The allegation is injurious and damaging to his personality.
“We were able to read the invitation extended to His Excellency. After analysing the content of the letter critically, we were able to identify three options. Either His Excellency responds in writing, sends representative or appears himself.
“Because of (the) high respect, His Excellency has (for) the committee and the Assembly; he opted for the second option. That is why I am here to represent him,” the Commissioner declared.
It was indicated that there are about four videos trending online, allegedly showing the governor packing dollars into his pocket for purported bribery from contractors.
The Chairman of the Committee, Bappa Dan’agundi, had remarked that the committee will invite graphic experts to watch the video clips on Tuesday, in the presence of lawyers of Messrs Ganduje and the journalist who shared the videos, Jaafar Jaafar, at an undisclosed location.
The Kano governor is already in court with the publisher of the bribery video.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment