Share this on WhatsApp



 
Presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC), Omoyele Sowore has vowed to jail former President Olusegun Obasanjo and several other past leaders who he alleged have looted the country blind if he is elected President in 2019.
The presidential candidate made the remark while speaking at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, on Tuesday, November 6, 2018, as he took digs at former president, Olusegun Obasanjo, as well as incumbent, President Muhammadu Buhari.
Sowore who is also the publisher of Saraha Reporters dismissed many of Nigeria’s past leaders as ‘morons’ who don’t think, said he’ll not spare any leader whose greed had put the nation in jeopardy and vowed to recover loot from living and dead looters.
He said, “I will be clear about fighting corruption. If we find out that someone stole 20 years ago, we will jail the person even if he only has a day left to live.
“If you are collecting Abacha’s loot, you should be collecting Obasanjo’s loot, you should be collecting Babangida’s loot. Loot is loot!
“If we can collect money from Abacha who is dead, why can’t we collect our looted money from Obasanjo and Babangida who have embezzled our money while they were in government I will probe them all.
“Over the years, Nigerians have been serving the greedy. I think it is the time to serve the needy, we need to draw line to say enough is enough.”
The 2019 presidential election, scheduled for February 16, 2019, is billed to be closely-fought between President Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP).
Alongside Sowore in the chasing pack is Donald Duke of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Kingsley Moghalu of the Young Progressive Party (YPP), Fela Durotoye of the Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN), and Oby Ezekwesili of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN).
Others are Tope Fasua of the Abundance Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP), Eunice Atuejide of the National Interest Party (NIP), Olusegun Mimiko of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Adesina Fagbenro-Byron of the Kowa Party (KP), Chike Ukaegbu of the Advanced Allied Party (AAP), Hamza Al-Mustapha of the People’s Party of Nigeria (PPN), Obadiah Mailafia of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), and many more.
79 candidates will contest in the election, the highest number ever in Nigeria’s electoral history.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment