Share this on WhatsApp



By Ediale Kingsley
It’s not news that he is currently the highest paid in the Chelsea locker room. At £290k per week he’s earning the same wage Paul Pogba earns for Manchester United. Ngolo Kante is the latest big earner in town.
And you wonder if a guy this humble can ever demand for a pay raise. Other things you also wonder is how the heck is a player like Ngolo Kante going to spend all these money.
He doesn’t believe in extravagant living. He doesn’t believe in living exotic. As a practicing muslim, Kante is very down to earth and really doesn’t see why he should live large.
He is the king of shy. You don’t know any player as shy as Kante. And there’s something about his sheepish looks that makes your heart melt. What an oxymoronic situation.
Yeah, the sheep you see off pitch in Kante is transformed into a lion during play. He plays like a demon but looks and acts like an angel. Kante won’t go out of his way to pull a Gattuso on you. He will simply politely ensure you don’t go pass him. He will intercept your passings. He will distrupt your play. And he isn’t built for exhaustion. Kante doesn’t get tired.
Kante has no problem roaming the pitch. He has no problem doing box to box. And with the new Sarri System, Kante has no problem doing business up front. Distrupting from the front (football just keeps evolving).
What Ediale is trying to say is this cool effective piece of machine deserves his wages. If Alexis Sanchez earns £315,000 weekly, and Mesut Özil pockets £306,250 weekly while Paul Pogba gets £290,000 weekly I think Kante has duly earned the right to join the squad.
I even think he will earn far more in the nearest future. He will surely out-earn these other guys above. The only issue is what will he spend the money on?
Sanchez loves cars and properties, Kante was comfortable riding bicycle to Leicester City trainings until they forced him to get a car.
Pogba loves to spend heavily on his hair, Kante rather just go on low cut. And he cuts his hair at home, by himself.
Ozil loves clothes and has a beautiful girlfriend that he lavishes on, Kante can wear a simple top and shots to big events and occasions. As for girlfriends…this Kante doesn’t look like he cares for such things of the world.
This French boy with Mali roots may not spend his money on materialistic things. But something tells me he will be someone cut out for charity and helping the poor.
One tweet said Kante must have a very tough agent to make up for his very soft spoken personality. And I kind of agree. Cos I don’t see a Kante putting a straight face and demanding for pay raise.
Meanwhile, it may interest you to know that the star boy of Leicester City, Vardy, is still on a £100k WPW. And yes I know Liecester is not Chelsea. But Vardy earns more than a lot of Chelsea’s players. He earns same wages with Azpillicueta, Pedro, Willian, Morata…
Another interesting thing is how Kepa, Chelsea’s Goalie, earns far more than all the defenders in Chelsea. Kepa Arrizabalaga is a big boy keeper ( £195,000 ).
Yeah, I know most of you will think the keeper doesn’t deserve his cost price and his wage tag. But remember that it’s those same Chelsea Brains that got the Kante Super Deal from Liecester. A deal they will reap for long (so long they keep Mourinho and Real Madrid’s hands off the bloke).
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment