Share this on WhatsApp



Leading indigenous telecoms giant and national carrier, Globacom has disclosed that its 4G LTE services are now live across the 36 states of the federation.
Across the nation, Glo’s 4G LTE service is also available in over 200 tertiary institutions, thus confirming it as the network with the widest LTE coverage in the country.
National Daily recalls that Globacom had in October, 2016, become the first network in country to roll out the 4G LTE service.
Industry analysts also says the telecom group is the 4G LTE that offer broadband Internet services to millions of Nigerians at speeds that are several times faster than the 3G network.
Additional details gathered on Globacom showed that the 700MHz band gives Glo 4G better coverage and penetration, explaining that “the radio propagation property of the 700MHz band enables Globacom 4G signal to travel the farthest, giving the largest coverage for any site.
Further investigation also revealed that any city where Glo LTE is present, it covers the widest area than any other network.
Recently, Globacom averred that “It also gives a better indoor penetration than other networks which are not on the band. Indeed, it offers seamless 4G coverage within the major cities without the requirement of handing over to 3G or 2G while using data, whether the subscriber is indoor or outdoor. This ensures a better user experience for 4G subscribers on the Glo network.”
Internet users’ confirmed that one of the key merits of the band is that it comes with a dedicated spectrum bandwidth of 10MHz which gives users the fastest speed among all 4G operators required to download and view movies and videos as well as listen to songs without any delay. It all comes in crystal clear quality, said Globacom.
Glo also explained that “To enjoy the superior Glo 4G LTE services and most competitive pricing that gives subscriber the best value data plans, the firm advised that subscribers should visit any Gloworld outlet near them to purchase a 4G device and SIM”.
Globacom added that existing customers with 4G-enabled smart phones could upgrade their SIMs free of charge at any Gloworld outlets, while customers without a 4G-enabled smart phone can purchase one from the same Gloworld outlets.
The company noted that “Globacom’s focus on higher institutions is to empower the students with fastest and affordable data services which are needed to facilitate their academic pursuit”.
Glo 4G LTE is supported by the company’s international submarine cable, Glo 1, which offers limitless Internet bandwidth capacity.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment