Share this on WhatsApp
Bayelsa Queens of Yenagoa yesterday overtook Rivers Angels of Port Harcourt after the Edwin Okon-tutored side fell 0-2 to Edo Queens in a Week 12 rescheduled game.

The Week 12 fixture was rescheduled to enable Rivers Angels play in the Aiteo FA Cup Women’s final, where Rivers defeated Ibom Angels 1-0 to retain the title they won last year in the grand finale played in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State.

Rivers Angels’ loss yesterday pulled back the club’s aspiration to qualify for the NWPL Super Four where the eventual champion of the league season will be determined after a fourteen-week abridged league.

The 2-0 deficit gave Rivers Angels’ perennial South-South rivals, Bayelsa Queens, the opportunity to move to second place with a superior Goal Difference of +14 against Rivers’ +13, with the two teams having the same 25 points from 13 matches, where they both won same number of matches, 7, and both lost two games each, with Rivers Angels recording just one draw and Bayelsa, 4.

As the table stands, Bayelsa are in second position courtesy of scoring 21 goals, conceding just 7 goals and a Goal Difference of +14, while Rivers scored the same 21 goals as Bayelsa but conceded 8 goals and has a +13 Goals’ difference.

Delta Queens who are topping Group A have 26 points from 13 games, won 7, drew 5 and lost only 1.

They have 22 Goals For, 7 Goals Against and a Goals’ Difference of +15.
This is the situation in Group A as the three top teams go into Week 14 games on Sunday which will mark the end of the Abridged League before setting the stage for the Super 4.

In Group B, defending champions, Nasarawa Amazons have qualified for the Super 4, with unassailable 26 points when compared with the second placed team, Sunshine Queens of Akure which has 22 points. Even in a situation where Nasarawa Amazons lose their last league game on Sunday and Sunshine wins and scores as much as 20 goals in the  match, the best they can get is 25 points, which is still inferior to Nasarawa’s 26 points.

Sunshine Queens’ present second position is being threatened by the Ann Agumanu-Chiejine’s tutored Abia Angels who are in third position, with same 22 points, but a Goal Difference of +2, against Sunshine Queen’s +8 goal difference.

The stage is set for the NWFL abridged league to end in a photo finish to set the stage for the Super 4.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment