Share this on WhatsApp

President of the Nigeria Football Federation Mr Amaju Melvin Pinnick this afternoon assured Super Falcons of better preparations for ahead of women world cup next year in France.

Addressing the players in their Accra hotel base, Pinnick said the same preparations given to the Super Eagles ahead of the 2019 African Cup of Nations in Cameroon will be same with the Falcons so as to ensure that they make an impact in France next year .

The NFF Supremo who’s an administrator per excellence brought congratulatory messages from the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria Mr. Muhammadu Buhari to the Super Falcons for making the country proud. Mr Pinnick, on behalf of the NFF apologised for the inadequacies experienced by the team and promised to do better.

“On behalf of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Mr Muhammadu Buhari that specifically made sure everything you people are enjoying today today is from him, said I should congratulate you and thank you for making the Country proud. We are indeed very delighted about what we have been able to achieve so far.

On our part as the NFF, I want to apologize for some inadequacies that was observed before your coming to Ghana, it was nothing intentional, we have been going through a lot as a federation but Super Falcons has become an asset that’s so priceless to us and it’s on that basis we went to get one of the best coaches in the World Thomas Dernneby and I believe the difference is clear.

I have been able to to talk to some of your players, the captain and they have made it very clear that this is a huge difference that this is a huge difference that we have been able to bring to the team.”

The First Vice President of the Confederation of African Football CAF, thanked the Lagos State Governor Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode for releasing facilities for the team which they used in their first phase of camping. He also hinted that since the team has secured the tickets to the World Cup in France, preparations will start immediately and he will approve every program given to him by the coach.

“We also want to thank the Governor of Lagos State, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode for giving us the facilities we used in Lagos and we believe now that we have qualified for the World Cup, preparations start today. Just after the tournament I’m going to sit down with your coach within the next 10 days, I’m sure I will give approvals for every program leading to the World Cup, we are going to work religiously towards achieving that, trust me we are going to give you a better preparation than the Super Eagles going to the World Cup. The Super Eagles going to the World Cup had one of the best preparations ever in the history of Nigerian football, but trust me we can make a very huge impact, we believe we can go beyond the Quarter Finals, forget about what happened in France.”

Mr Pinnick, showered praises on the girls for standing tall against Cameroon, Miss Aisha Falode leader of the Super falcons for the good job done and said more work will be given to her as she will also lead the team to the World Cup in France. The seasoned administrator promised to double the team’s bonus if they win against the Bayana Bayana of South Africa on Saturday and that will see them earn $10,000 as against $5000. He also charged the ladies to do it for him as 1st of December is his birthday.

“What you guys demonstrated against Cameroon was the spirit of Naija and that’s why we won that game, you should also know that God is with us especially on the part of the NFF.

We need to win this trophy to show appreciation to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, because he has done alot for football, win it,  it’s your property, that trophy does not know any other route or destination other than Nigeria. 1st of December is my birthday, fortunately my wife is not here, she love the team and she said I should beg you people to give her husband a birthday gift by winning the trophy.


I believe you can do it,  what you guys have achieved no team in the World has done that, we will be winning it for the ninth time, no team has done that so Tobago much is given, much is expected.”

Nigeria will tackle the Bayana Bayana of South Africa in Saturday at the Accra Sports Stadium 4pm GMT/5pm Nigeria time.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment