Share this on WhatsApp
Vomoz Mobile, one of the largest Telecommunication retailing Service company in America has joined other brands to partner with Gold Cup Pre-season Tourney to support the organisers with cash and awards for outstanding players,National Daily learnt.

The Telecommunications firm will take full responsibility for the Man of the Match, Most Valuable Player and Highest Goal Scorer Awards with cash incentives.

This is a pipeline of investment that would redefine local football development, fans’ participation and sponsorship across the country and African continent.

Olatoye Olawale Vomoz Mobile Representative told National Daily in an interview after the partnership agreement in Lagos during the week ; “We thought it a way of giving back as one thing that unites Africa is sport with the major one being Football.

“So Vomoz Mobile as an indigenous American company has found out that it can facilitate bringing in foreign investment to sponsor football in Nigeria and Africa at large,” enthused Olatoye.

He added, “Also, we want to invest in African sports because, 95% of our customers in America are Africans and they’re using our services.

“People don’t know they can actually sponsor event back home and they’re not going to do it until they see a formidable company like Vomoz Mobile do stuffs in Nigeria, then they will become interested.”

General Coordinator of the tourney, Tunde Shamsudeen, said; “This gesture from Vomoz Mobile is commendable, it shows that Nigerians in the diaspora still follow our domestic league.

“I hope to see more of their participation in subsequent editions.”

Ekiti State will host this year’s edition from Thursday November 15 through Saturday November 24, 2018.

The Gold Cup Pre-season Tournament is sponsored by distinguished Senator of the Federal Republic, Dr. Buhari Abdul-Fatai (BAF), and proudly supported by Nigeria Football Federation Executive Committee Member, Alhaji  Ahmed Yusuf Fresh, foremost betting company, Bet9ja, Nigeria leading sportswear firm, ‘Owu’, Play Sportswear, Ekiti State Football Association, Naija League Magazine, Tribeca Code, Seyi Akinwunmi Foundation, Phoenix ASC, Matchroom, Sportspro, New-Bell Global Investment, 11th Media Global Concept, Phreestyle Sports, Rashidi Yekini Foundation and Gidado Football Academy.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment