Share this on WhatsApp

reveals good governance strategy

The Lagos Alliance for Democracy (AD) gubernatorial candidate,High Chief Owolabi Salis has said that he would ensure governance is better felt at the grassroots if elected governor of the state come 2019.

Owolabi disclosed the idea when he paid a courtesy call on Muslim clerics gathered at the Ikeja Central Mosque, citing his resolve to bridge the gap between the less privileged and the well to do in the society.
Ward Governors.

“If I win, we want to effect the ward executive and bring governance to the people. A way of getting closer to the people, get them involved, we are going to form a 50 member executive council minimum, to be paid from the government purse, and one of them will be selected or appointed ward governor who I will be meeting with me every week to know what is going on.

“They will be well funded, that is the best way to go, we are gonna do  what is called enterprise system, which will lead to competition amongst skilled individuals to bring their best.

“Then the best entrepreneur will be a pointer for others to level up and learn how to do things well, our people have good brains which needs to be allowed to exhibit capacity.

“Some of them have furniture experience, auto-mechanic experience, road construction experience and all these monies that are supposed to be used to fund these,some people are pocketing it, we want to give it back to the people.




Owolabi also revealed why he is in the race.

“To bridge the gap between the poor and the rich on basic needs of life  and to also let them know that I am contesting for Governor of Lagos State having the passion to relieve the less privileged of poverty, fight for them and make Lagos comfortable for all.

“For them to come to terms with their  roles as religious leaders to pray for the emancipation of lagosians from strangle hold of APC, from the systemic slavery going on in Lagos by those who have everything to themselves while they impoverish the less privileged.

The Imams, who converged at the venue randomly selected across  Lagos Senatorial district, canvassed for inclusion in the governance framework of the state to reflect a balanced structure.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment