Share this on WhatsApp



 
A suspected internet fraudster popularly referred to as ‘yahoo’ in local parlance, Akpobome Samuel, has confessed to strangulating his mother, Mrs. Gift Samuel and also slept with the corpse for money making rituals, at Ologbo, Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Area of Ed state.
The eighteen year old was among two murder suspects and 84 others for various crimes paraded on Wednesday by the Edo State Police Command.
Akpobome, who confessed to his crime, said he acted on the instructions of the native doctor whom he contacted for money rituals.
He said the native doctor told him that after killing his mother, he should sleep with her corpse in order to get rich and that he complied with his instruction and killed her.
Akpobome, who said he worked in a sachet water packaging factory in Ologbo, said he was caught by his grandmother who came to knock at his door having waited patiently for the deceased to accompany her to church.
It was gathered that the grandmother caught the suspect in the act, while having sex with his mother.
He said he had only slept with the corpse once and that his grandmother raised the alarm that attracted the attention of the people around when she saw the lifeless body of his mother on the floor.
“The native doctor told me to kill my mother and sleep with her corpse, but he did not tell me the number of days to sleep with her. He told me to keep her dead body inside the room for two days but I was caught when I could no longer keep it.
“I did not know that my grandmother was sitting outside. She opened the door and sighted me with the corpse inside the room and raised the alarm that drew the attention of the public. My mother did not offend me. I killed her because of the money,” he said.
Other suspects were paraded for various crimes, such as cultism, kidnapping, rape, armed robbery, murder and burglary.
The other murder suspect was 20-year old Odion Jimoh, who beheaded a man identified as Asuelimhen Atogwe, at Ayogwiri, in Edo north.
On his part, Odion Jimoh who beheaded his victim, said he did not know what came on him before he committed the murder.
“Honestly, the man did not do anything to me. I don’t know what came over me,” he said.
Police sources had it that the victim who worked as a carpenter, was contracted to work at a house where met the suspect weeding, and asked him why he was not at the community age-group festival.
It was gathered that the suspect, who was already high after smoking substance suspected to be marijuana, felt slighted and humiliated by the victim’s action, and went after him, hit him on the neck with a wooden object before beheading him with a cutlass.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment