Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Nigerian Government has been rated low on job creation in the African continent, signaling the depth of the failure of governance. National Daily gathered that a new report showed lack of commitment by African countries to creation of jobs for the increasing young population even as some countries have seen strong economic growth.
It was learnt that the latest Ibrahim Index of African Governance therefore strongly warned of the consequences of declining job opportunities in a continent where the sub-Saharan population is projected to double by 2050.
The report released on Monday indicated that Africa’s overall Gross Domestic Product, GDP, has risen nearly 40 per cent over the past decade within which Nigeria is struggling with 1.7% GDP. The report noted that the continent’s average score for sustainable economic opportunity has increased just a fraction of 1 per cent.
It listed Nigeria, Angola, Sudan and Algeria as some countries with the highest GDP in Africa but are among the lowest for job creation.
It was gathered that Africa is witnessing the rise of young opposition leaders in countries like Uganda, Zimbabwe, South Africa and Cameroon who are impatient with some of the world’s oldest or longest-serving heads of state.
Earlier this month, young opposition leaders in East Africa said they would unite with like-minded colleagues in West and southern Africa to form a movement to challenge the misrule that has plagued the continent.
Experts warn of coming turbulence as about 60 per cent of Africa’s population is under age 25.
“Africa has a huge challenge ahead. Its large and youthful potential workforce could transform the continent for the better, but this opportunity is close to being squandered,” Mo Ibrahim, the Sudan-born billionaire who leads the foundation behind the report, had said in a statement.
“The evidence is clear – young citizens of Africa need hope, prospects and opportunities. Its leaders need to speed up job creation to sustain progress and stave off deterioration,” it was added.
Strong economic growth doesn’t necessarily lead to more opportunities, the new report indicated.
The report also cautioned that education in 27 countries across the continent is now on the decline, further hurting the young population’s future.
And “alarmingly, citizens’ political and civic space in Africa is shrinking,” the report maintained, meaning less room for an increasingly connected, tech-savvy population to express concerns and seek solutions, with potentially explosive results.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment