Share this on WhatsApp

Expels National Vice Chairman for anti-party activities




The conflicts in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) are elevating the party to a boiling point at which the nutrients of the structure are fast melting down from the national leadership to the states.
APC National Vice Chairman, North West, Inuwa Abdulkadir, has become a victim in the intractable conflicts in the party and has been axed by the State APC in Sokoto State which declared his expulsion on suspicions of anti-party activities and unrestrained loyalty to Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, who defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
National Daily gathered that the Vice National Chairman, North West, was expelled following the state party’s decision on the petition of Naibi Abubakar, an APC stalwart, to the Magajin Gari A Ward Chairman where he complained of Abdulkadir’s “continuous absence from party activities and meetings.”
Abubakar, an APC with registration number SOK/SON/04006510, protested that Abdulkadir “has not convene any zonal meeting of the APC in order to assess the fortunes of the party following defections to PDP of many party chieftains and members from the zone.” since his election as APC national vice chairman in the zone.
Abubakar further stated that Abdulkadir did not attend or participate in any meeting where APC leaders deliberated on the mode of primaries to be adopted in the state during the nomination of candidates of the party for the 2019 general elections.
“Inuwa Abdulkadir ridiculed the Sokoto State chapter of the APC by not sitting among other delegates from Sokoto State at the special convention of the APC where President Muhammadu Buhari was affirmed as the candidate of the APC for 2019 Presidential election,“ Abubakar had stated.
He protested that Abdulkadir does not recognize the Sokoto State Deputy Governor, Ahmad Aliyu, as APC leader in the state; but insisted that Governor Aminu Tambuwal who defected to the PDP is still the political leader in the state. He “has not made any public statement to renounce his allegiance to the governor,” Abubakar protested.
Abdulkadir was accused of maintaining his allegiance to Tambuwal and the PDP; he was said not have resigned his appointment as Chairman of Governing Council of Sokoto State University; an appointment offered him by Tambuwal.
National Daily gathered that the Magajin Gari A Ward Chairman appointed a disciplinary committee comprising five members on October 19 to investigate the petition against Abdulkadir.
The Ward Chairman, Shamsu Bello, and Secretary, Bello Ibrahim, mandated the Committee to “invite the person complained against to defend himself on the allegations made against him within the stipulated period accordingly.”
The disciplinary Committee headed by the Ward Chairman, Bello, subsequently submitted a report to the Sokoto North Local Government APC; recommended the expulsion of Abdulkadir, having found him guilty on all the allegations.
The Sokoto North Executive Committee of the party in a resolution signed by all 18 officials of the local government APC, ratified the report of the Magajin Gari A Ward and forwarded a report to the State APC, affirming the recommendation for the expulsion of Abdulkadir.
The local government APC Executive was said to have cited the validity of the decision in paragraphs 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5 of eh party’s rules “which shows that Inuwa Abdulkadir has ridiculed the party and made derogatory comments against leaders of the party in Sokoto State.”
APC State Executive Council in Sokoto approved the expulsion recommendation after upholding the Sokoto North APC report on the recommendation of Magajin Gari A Ward to expel the national vice chairman for anti-party activities.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment