Share this on WhatsApp

As we journey towards the next General Elections (#NDCountDown2019), the battle between political gurus in the nation is highlighted by fierce intensity. Secrets would be exposed even as propaganda hit various levels of hyperbolisms.

One of such item being currently treated with interest is the tale of a cloned President Mohammadu Buhari. National Daily monitors Nnamdi Kanu’s broadcast to highlight the facts therein that suggests that the current man at the seat of power is the fake one elected at the 2015 elections.

And that further makes Governor Okorocha’s and Governor Amosun’s intention to spill the beans over secrets that has to do with Aso Rock quite interesting.

Here are the 10 facts dropped by Nnamdi Kanu:


1. On the 17/01 Buhari collapsed in Asorock

2. On 18/01 he was flown to UK.

3. He went through brain surgery and came out brain dead in coma.

4. He was left in Oxygen for a week and the Oxygen was switched off on 27/1.

5. On 28/ he was flown to Saudi Arabia and buried.

6. The wife was captured at the Airport and when she was asked where she was coming from, she said she travelled to Saudi for Lesser Hajj. She was returning to NIGERIA and not UK where her presumed Husband was.

7. Immediately 4 men were fetched from Saudi Arabia to be paid $250m to impersonate Buhari.

8. They got one and for nearly 4 months Doctors were working on him. Till they got something very close to his resemblance.

9. They couldn’t fix the Ears.

10. They couldn’t change his fingerprint and that is why he couldn’t access his office in Asorock but they lied that Rodents took over his office. The Doors were Changed with the new man’s fingerprints.

The Log of Aircraft and movements is there as evidence…“Today, three Governors are threatening to speak if APC dares them. Ask Okoroawusa (Okorocha) what he intends to say that would make Nigerians burn down Asorock? Ask Amosun of Ogun state, what he wants to say if that will shake Nigeria if APC pushes him again?”
 
Note: Follow #NDCountDown2019 for Stories leading to the General Elections.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment