Share this on WhatsApp



 
Two Senators from the South East, Hope Uzodinma from Imo State and Stella Oduah from Anambra State, may be facing fresh crisis in the preparations for the 2019 general elections. National Daily gathered that Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, SPIP, has commenced prosecution of the senators at the Abuja Division of the Federal High Court, accusing them of refusal to declare their assets.
National Daily also learnt that the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, approved the two-count charge brought against the two Senators at the Abuja Federal High Court.
The prosecution of Stella Oduah of the PDP was said to be handled by Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu, while Senator Uzodinma, a factional governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Imo State, is assigned to Justice Babatunde Quadri.
National Daily further gathered that the two-count charge against Oduah marked FHC/ABJ/CR/110/2018, read: “That you, Senator Stella Adaeze Oduah (F) on or about 29th day of March, 2018 being a public officer with the National Assembly Abuja, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, committed an offence to wit: refused to declare your assets without reasonable excuse and upon notice to declare your assets before the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, Abuja contrary to and punishable under S. 3 (3) (1) (a) of the Recovery of Public Property (Special Provision) Act 2004.
“That you, Senator Stella Adaeze Oduah (F) on or about 29th day of March 2018 being a pubic officer with the National Assembly Abuja within the jurisdiction of this honourable court committed an offence to wit: neglected to declare your assets without reasonable excuse and upon notice to declare your assets before the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, Abuja contrary to and punishable under S. 3 (3) (1) (a) of the Recovery of Public Property (Special Provision) Act 2004.”
The charges against Uzodinma, marked FHC/ABJ/CR/107/2018, read in part: “That you, Senator Hope Uzodinma (M) on or about the 5th day of March 2018, being a public officer with the National Assembly Abuja, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, committed an offence to wit: refused to declare your assets without reasonable excuse and upon notice to declare your assets before the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, Abuja, contrary to and punishable under S. 3 (3) (1) (a) of the Recovery of Public Property (Special Provision) Act 2004.
“That you Senator Hope Uzodmma (M) on or about 5th day of March 2018 being a public officer that the National Assembly Abuja, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, committed an offence to wit: neglected to declare your assets without reasonable excuse and upon notice to declare your assets before the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, Abuja, contrary to and punishable under S. 3 (3) (1) (a) of the Recovery of Public Property (Special Provision) Act 2004.”
The senators are expected to present their counsels for hearing to commence.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment