Share this on WhatsApp


Africa Football Alliance presented excellence awards to Plateau State Governor Barrister Simon Lalong, NFF President Amaju Pinnick and NFF 1st Vice President Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi,National Daily learnt.

Governor Lalong who watched the Super Eagles versus Bafana Bafana Cup of Nations qualifier at the FNB stadium with his wife, bagged African Football Development Excellence Award for his support for local league football in the Plateau State which saw Plateau United emerge NPFL champions two seasons ago.

Governor Lalong also played a key role is the resolution of the crisis that rocked the NFF recently.

A delighted Lalong said “I have no regrets supporting football because it is well known that once you achieve victory in sports at any level, half of your work in governing your people and gaining their support is done”.

For his role in transforming Nigerian Football to a world brand, and his rise in African football governance, NFF boss and CAF 1st Vice President Amaju Pinnick was honoured with the African Football Leadership Awards.

National Daily gathered that Pinnick expressed appreciation to the conveners and dedicated the award to President Muhammed Buhari and the Super Eagles following their qualification for the 2019 Cup of Nations.

And for his admirable strides in youth football development as seen by his charity football and other projects, NFF 1st VP Barrister Akinwunmi received the African Football Development Recognition Award.

The event which took place immediately after the Super Eagles one all draw with Bafana Bafana at the FNB stadium, was held at the HB Connect Conference Centre in Sandton.

It was also attended by the Plateau State Commissioner for Sports, Chairman Lagos State Sports Commission Dr Kweku Adedayo Tandoh,  State FA Chairmen, ex-players, media personalities and other football stakeholders from Nigeria and South Africa.

The brief ceremony also tagged “Football Friendship Dinner” was compered by Ace Sports Journalist Emeka Enyadike and was hosted by Gernt Davids, Convener of Africa Football Alliance (AFA), and Sec. Gen of National Association of Nigerian Footballers (NANF) Austin Popo who is also a top official of the AFA.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment