Share this on WhatsApp

Threatens to occupy embassies

A frontline pro-democracy and Non- Governmental organization, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA), has petitioned World leaders to facilitate immediate diplomatic sanctions on Senator Godswill Akpabio, former Governor of Akwa Ibom State, for threating to violently take over Akwa Ibom State in the same manner that Pro-Nazi leader, Adolph Hitler, invaded Poland in the 1940’s which precipitated World War 11.
HURIWA also condemned President Muhammadu Buhari over his silence on the threat to national security by Akpabio; including the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for failing to strongly reprimand the Senator Akpabio until recently when he decamped to the ruling party.
MURIWA decried that Akpabio was said to have defected to the ruling party which controls the Economic and Financial Crimes commission (EFCC); then uses the commission to intimidate political opponents Akwa Ibom State for self-protection or soft-landing in the ongoing investigation of his suspected financial impropriety by EFCC in his eight years of being the Governor of Akwa Ibom State. The group noted that EFCC alleged that over $100 billion of Akwa Ibom State’s fund went missing during the Akpabio administration.    
HURIWA expressed perturbation that on decamping from PDP to APC, Akpabio in media interviews was cited to have threatened that his party, APC, will take over Akwa Ibom State in 2019, now, controlled by the PDP in the same way that Adolph Hitler, a Nazist, invaded Poland.   
HURIWA ion the petition, reiterated that “the statement by Senator Akpabio completely amounts to the approval of the pre-world war II atrocities committed by one of the world’s most dreaded tyrants of all times – Adolphus Hitler.”
The group protested that the former Akwa Ibom State Governor had declared that “the takeover of the state by the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2019 would be as total as the 1940 invasion of Poland by the German dictator, Adolf Hitler.”
HURIWA further protested that “Akpabio, at Aguobu-Owa, Ezeagu Local Government Area of Enugu State,” said that “the impending 2019 general elections in Akwa Ibom State would be a full scale war, and he boasted his new party would win.”
“Recently, I had an occasion in Akwa Ibom State and this is what happened: I went just to make a floor declaration; others do it in the social media, others just sit in their offices, some do it by text messages that they have changed platform, what we call party. But in my own, I just decided to do it in an uncommon way because they call me uncommon transformer. It was watched in 59 countries and somebody asked what happened there, and I said just how it happened in Poland.
“When they asked Hitler’s minister for information how was the war in Poland? He said Warsaw saw war and war saw Warsaw. I will say that in the Ikot-Ekpene arena, when I stepped out, this is my first function after that, Warsaw saw war and war saw Warsaw. We can’t talk politics in the church but in 2019 Warsaw shall see war and war shall see Warsaw. The return will be victory. May God grant us all victory,” HURIWA cited Akpabio to have threatened.
HURIWA argued that Senator Akpabio’s statement constituted not just a hate speech but is anti-Semitic since he clearly glorified the murderous activities of Hitler which culminated in the genocidal killings of over six million Jews.
In addition to the conspiratorial siege on Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly by thugs last Monday, and subsequently, the Police on Wednesday, HURIWA petitioned  Embassies and High Commissions of foreign countries which  include the US, Germany, then UK, France, Italy, Canada, Japan, Israel, Australia and Spain at the weekend demanding that Senator Godswill Akpabio be placed on travel ban to their respective countries until he purges himself of the anti-semitic instincts and withdraws his threats against the people of Akwa Ibom State. 
HURIWA threatened mass protest to occupy major embassies if after 21 working days, no diplomatic sanctions is placed on Akpabio who is known to travel often to Europe and America.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment