Share this on WhatsApp



 
The violent protest of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), the Shi’ites, has been attracting international attention as many Shi’ite Muslims are reported killed and injured by the Nigerian Army during their protests over the continued detention of their leader, Sheik Ibrahim El-Zakzaky by the Federal Government.
Amnesty International had in a report indicted the Nigerian Army and Police of brutal force in killing the peaceful protesters. Subsequently, the Government of the United States of America expressed concerns over the violent clashes between protesting Shi’ites and Nigerian soldiers in the Abuja metropolis and its environs; urging the federal government of Nigeria to conduct thorough investigation.
The US Government in a statement by its Office in Abuja had declared: “The United States Embassy is concerned by the deaths resulting from clashes between Nigerian security forces and members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria in areas surrounding Abuja.
“We urge Government of Nigeria authorities to conduct a thorough investigation of the events and to take appropriate action to hold accountable those responsible for violations of Nigerian law. We urge restraint on all sides.”
The IMN, Shi’ites had declared three days mass protest in the federal capital territory (FCT) in agitation of their leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, who has been in detention at the instance of the federal government. The protest led to clashes between the Shi’ites and security operatives in Abuja in their attempts to restore law and order within the territory.
However, the Defence Headquarters (DHQ), Abuja, chided the Amnesty International (AI) for accusing the Nigerian military of using excessive force to contain the violent protest of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN).
The Defence Headquarters Director of Public Communications, John Agim, had in a statement, condemned the AI, accusing global human right watchman of its report indicting the military, saying the report is a figment of its imagination.
Amnesty had indicted the Nigerian military of attacking the “peaceful” Shi’ite protesters with live ammunition, with the intention of killing the protesters.
The military and IMN members better known as Shi’ites had clashed within the federal capital territory (FCT) for three days.
National Daily gathered that Agim narrated that in Zuba, a satellite town of Abuja an exit axis to Kaduna and Minna, the Shi’ite protesters had in a “premeditated” fashion, confronted troops who were transporting live ammunition and missiles to a military formation in Kaduna with the aim of stealing the weapons.
The DHQ Director of Communications also narrated that in another instance, the Shi’ites protesters deliberately confronted soldiers at a popular checkpoint along Nyanya – Maraca road, a transit route into the FCT from Nasarawa State.
The Director remarked that in both instances, the military acted in self defence, only applying minimum force to ward off the protesters who had dangerous weapons on hand.
The DHQ Director declared: “The Defence Headquarters wishes to respond to Amnesty International (AI) reports in which the group alleged that the Nigerian military and the Police engaged in horrific use of excessive force that led to the killing of members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), popularly known as Shi’ites during ‘peaceful’ protests.
“The worrisome narrative of the Amnesty International (AI) in matters of national security and cohesion of Nigeria has continued unabated in spite of verifiable evidences to the contrary.
“The Amnesty international’s hate and disdain for peaceful co-existence of Nigerians is manifested in the ways it consistently fabricates lies and gives negative narrative of issues related to Nigeria’s national security and its military.
“The DHQ wishes to emphasize for the umpteenth time that the narratives of the AI are outright falsehoods and calculated attempts at whipping up sentiments and misleading unsuspecting Nigerians as well as demoralizing friendly nations.
“The intentions of AI in Nigeria have remained suspect as the organization is always silent on the other side of issues.
“Nigerians who witnessed how military troops on legitimate duty came under unprovoked attacks from IMN members both in Zuba area of the FCT on Sunday, 28 October 2018 and at a security checkpoint in Mararaba, Nasarawa State on Monday, 29 October 2018 have videos and images of wounded soldiers and damaged military vehicles with audio commentaries. These are available in the public domain.
“Unfortunately, Amnesty International did not see anything wrong with these unprovoked subversive attacks on Nigerian military and other innocent passersby but was quick to refer to the activities of IMN from whom dangerous weapons and ammunition including Improvised Explosive Devices (IED), guns, knives and cutlasses were recovered as a peaceful protest.
“This goes further to prove the point that Amnesty International does not mean well for Nigeria. This is also in tandem with their previous reputation of denigrating the security forces anytime they make gains against the forces of evil to incite the Nigerian public and international community against the Military.”
The Police had also arrested 400 members of Shi’ites who breached public peace during the protest, who the Police said are undergoing investigation after which they would be prosecuted.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment