Share this on WhatsApp



 
Governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Ganduje, has filled a N3 billion suit against an online newspaper, Daily Nigerian and its publisher Ja’afar Ja’afar for allegedly releasing videos clips of the governor allegedly receiving bundles of dollars as kickbacks from contractors.
In the suit dated November 13 filed at a federal high court in the state, the governor, through Nuradeen Ajagi, his counsel, asked the court to declare the publication by the newspaper alleging he collected bribes from contractors as a defamation of character and wrongful.
The governor also demanded a public apology from the newspaper. Ja’afar is expected to appear in court within 14 days.
“Outright and unqualified imputation of theft, fraud, corruption and dishonesty which are all criminal offenses by the defendants’ publication against the plaintiff without any conviction by a court of laws, is slanderous, libelous, injurious and wrongful,” the suit read.
“In order perpetually restraining the defendants, their agents and all persons and entities to whom they shared their libelous documents/records from further defaming the good standing and character of the plaintiff.
“That the plaintiff is entitled to damages against the defendants for defamation of character by way of libel and slander.
“An order of perpetual injunction restraining the defendants from further publishing the said defamatory story and sharing the said doctored video clips howsoever to whichever type of audience.
“An order compelling the defendants to pay the plaintiff the sum of N3, 000,000,000 (Three billion naira) as damages for the defamation of the plaintiff character and standing.
“An order compelling the defendants to write a public apology to the plaintiff and broadcast such apology through their online platforms and other news media with global accessibility.”
The Kano state house of assembly had set up committee to probe the allegations but the panel halted its investigations based on a court order.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment