Share this on WhatsApp




Debates for the 2019 general elections where candidates for the presidential election would response to policy issues before Nigerians and cross-fertilise ideas between the presidential candidates commences in January.
National Daily gathered that the Nigerian Election Debate Group (NEDG) and Broadcasting Organisations of Nigeria (BON) scheduled the presidential and vice-presidential debate to hold on January 19, 2019 and earlier on December 14, 2018.
It was indicated that the presidential debate will hold on January 19, 2019, while vice-presidential would have their debates on December 14, 2018. The vice presidential candidates’ debate has been scheduled to hold earlier than the Presidential debate.
Chairman of BON, John Momoh, revealed the schedules on Thursday at a press conference in Abuja.
Momoh, who is also the Chairman/CEO of Channels Media Group, had further disclosed that the debates will be broadcasted live on all BON member radio and television stations across the country and also streamed on social media platforms.
Momoh had declared: “The Nigerian Election Debate Group and the Broadcasting Organisations of Nigeria are organising a presidential debate on January the 19th, 2019 and a vice presidential debate on December the 14th, 2018.
“The debates would hold at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel Abuja and will be broadcast live on all BON member radio and television stations across the country.
“The debates will also be streamed live on all mobile and social media platforms such as Youtube, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, to give it a global coverage.”
He had remarked that the debates will focus on the issues of importance to working families; restoring the economy, providing electricity, creating jobs, securing health care for every Nigerian, making and achieving excellence in every Nigerian school and ensuring safety and security for Nigerians.
“The Nigerian Election Debate Group would set the format and rules of the debate, handle moderation, outline the criteria for political party participation, ensure the objectivity of audiences and steer negotiations between broadcasters and the parties.
“Nigerians expect the leaders of all political parties to be challenged in a very public and robust way in these debates, not just one of them, but a series of them.” Momoh declared.
However, there was no explanation why the vice presidents debate holds in December while the presidents debates holds in January.







Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment