Share this on WhatsApp



President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of five Chief Executive officers and two Executive Directors of some federal agencies.
This was disclosed in a statement issued by Olusegun Adekunle, Permanent Secretary (General Services) Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation on Friday in Abuja.
According to him, Okechukwu Ukwuoma, Director-General, National Centre for Technology Management (NACETEM) is re-appointed for a final term of four years with effect from July 22.
Also, Victor Adetiloye, Chief Medical Director (CMD), Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital, Ile-Ife, was re-appointed for the final term of four years with effect from September 22.
Mr Buhari also approved the appointment of Abdul-Jalil Suleiman as the Director-General, Directorate of Technical Cooperation in Africa (DTCA), for an initial term of four years with effect from September 17.
Also appointed was Bassey Abasi as Chief Medical Director (CMD), University of Uyo Teaching Hospital, for an initial term of four years with effect from September 22.
Junaid Abdullahi was appointment as the Executive Secretary, Border Communities Development Agency (BDCA) with effect from September 22 for an initial period of four years.
The president also appointed Mojoyi Dekalu-Thomas as Executive Director (Liability Management) of Electricity Liability Management Company (NELMCO) for an initial term of four years with effect from September 20.
Chinedum Olisakwe- Lawrence’s appointment was renewed as the Executive Director (Corporate Services) of Electricity Liability Management Company (NELMCO) for a second term of four years with effect from September 20.
The president enjoined the appointees to regard their appointments as a call to national service and to carry out their responsibilities with uprightness, diligence and prompt response to the yearnings of the public.


He also charged them to bring their wealth of experience to bear in the discharge of their duties.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment