Share this on WhatsApp



Canon, a leading provider of Consumer, business-to-business and industrial digital imaging solutions is proposing a partnership with the Lagos State chapter of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria in the area of capacity building,National Daily learnt .
During a courtesy call by the Channel Account Manager, Canon Central and North Africa, Obembe Oluwaseyi John on the leadership of the association led by its Chairman, Debo Oshundun, both parties agreed to forge a lasting partnership.
Obembe told National Daily that with Lagos being the home of sports journalism in Sub-Sahara Africa, CANON deemed it necessary to invest in members of the fourth estate of the realm to enable them to attain their full potential.
“We wanted to start something before the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia, but we could not conclude on time and we missed out of that window. 2018 is already gone. If we want to do well in 2019, the time to start is now,” he said.
Obembe said CANON is ready to bring in experts from Dubai and Japan to train Lagos SWAN members on a regular basis.
“Right now, we are looking at organizing trainings four times in a year which will be segmented into beginners, intermediate and advanced targeted at photographers, cinematographers and video editors”, he  said.
According to him, for every engagement, there will be accessibility to equipment and on the spot sale to Lagos SWAN members at discounted rates so that interested members can purchase. ‎
In his remarks, Chairman of Lagos SWAN said the world is going digital and it is expedient for members of Lagos SWAN to key into this unique opportunity with CANON.
“It is a blessing for us in Lagos SWAN. The training is coming at a right time because for us in the newsprint, pictures tell half of the story. For those in Television, online and other multimedia platforms, good pictures and videos tell the story,” Oshundun said.‎
He thanked CANON for realizing the vital role of Lagos SWAN in sports development and nation building.
Oshundun said the partnership may not primarily be in the areas of purchase but assured of maximum visibility for CANON and its products.
Meanwhile, a four- man committee has been set up to draw out roadmaps for the capacity building proposed to start in January, 2019.
Lagos SWAN ex-officio member, Adetula Phemmy will chair the committee with  Ganiyu Yusuf (Complete Sports),  Enitan Obadina (Master Sports International) and Oni Afolabi (NBBF board member, Media) as members.‎
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment