Share this on WhatsApp

He is father of Familiocracy




The post-primary elections conflicts in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has continued unabated. The party leaders have engaged in crossfires without restraint. Apparently, Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State on Monday fired back at the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, labeling him grand master of nepotism and parochialism in governance.
Okorocha in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, declared that Oshiomhole is the “father of nepotism,” insisting that Oshiomhole promoted his relations into several political offices in Edo State when he was Governor.
Oshiomhole explaining his travail in the leadership of the ruling APC at the weekend remarked that Governor Okorocha and three other APC governors- felt offended when they lost his support to impose their successors or do their biddings. The national chairman noted that Okorocha became angry because he declined assisting him to build a political dynasty in Imo State.
The Imo State Governor, however, declared: “To say the least, Adams Oshiomhole is the “father – father” of family dynasty or nepotism or “familiocracy”. He debunked imposing sponsoring his family to take over Imo State.
Okorocha noted that Uche Nwosu, though, his in-law, is not from the same local government with him. He acknowleged: “Uche Nwosu is from Nkwerre Local Government Area, while Rochas Okorocha is from Ideato South Local Government Area. They have no relationship aside the in-law issue.”
The Imo Governor admitted that Mrs. Ogechi Ololo from Owerri North is the only relation he has in the state government.
The Imo Governor, in provocation, declared: “There is no other direct or indirect relation of Okorocha in his government. So, as it stands now, Rochas is the only Okorocha running election.
“But Oshiomhole is the known family dynasty builder. And Edo State is the victim. In fact, he is the architect of “familiocracy”.
“Oshiomhole is the National Chairman of APC and governor for eight years. Rilwan Oshiomhole, his younger brother, is a Commissioner in Edo State Oil Producing Development Commission (EDSOPEDEC). Seid Aliyu Oshiomhole, another younger brother, is the House of Assembly candidate for Etsako West 2 State Constituency. Yakubu Oshiomhole is the Secretary to the Local Government Commission; Dr. Cyril Adams Oshiomhole is vying for the House of Representatives for Etsako Federal Constituency.
“With all these, between Rochas Okorocha whose only relation in government is Ogechi Ololo from Owerri North and Adams Oshiomhole who has the Oshiomholes in government or contesting positions, who should be accused of building a dynasty or running a familiocracy.”
The Imo Governor was of the view that Oshiomhole manipulated the process to produce a different outcome from the governorship primary election in Imo State to ensure Uche Nwosu was eliminated.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment