Share this on WhatsApp



The Lagos State House of Assembly on Monday passed a Bill for a Law to Provide for the Establishment of the Lagos State Tourism Promotion Agency and for Connected Purposes.
The Agency is being put in place to promote the state’s tourism industry and achieve international best practices in the delivery of tourism products and services.
The 54-section bill, sponsored by 13 lawmakers, was read for the third time on the floor of the House before passage after a voice vote.
Mr Mudashiru Obasa, Speaker of the House, directed the Clerk, Mr Azeez Sanni, to forward a clean copy of the bill to Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode of the state for assent.
Earlier, the Majority Leader of the House, Mr Sanai Agunbiade, moved the motion for the bill to be read for the third time, which was seconded by Mr Yinka Ogundimu (APC-Agege II).
According to the bill, the Agency shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal, and shall have the powers to sue and be sued in its corporate name.
It is, among other things, “to promote, market and develop the state domestically and internationally as a major tourist destination by highlighting its uniqueness and assisting the development of its tourism products and services”.
The Agency is also expected to advise private organisations, state and local government on matters relating to tourism.
It was also to facilitate the creation of investment opportunities for tourism development by focusing on beach and leisure, culture and heritage, arts and entertainment, nature and adventure, wellness and medical tourism, among others.
The bill also spelt out the composition of the Agency’s Governing Board, term of office, remuneration and allowances, cessation of office of members of the board, meetings, quorum, powers of the board among other things.
Meanwhile, the House commiserated with the people of Epe and the state in general on the demise of Oba Okunola Adesanya, the Alara of Ilara.
Mr Segun Olulade (APC-Epe II) raised the matter of the death of the traditional ruler under matter of public urgent importance, supported by Mr Abiodun Tobun (APC-Epe II)
The duo, who hailed the traditional ruler for his contributions toward the development of the state, urged the House to condole with the family of the late monarch.
After a minute silence for the late Oba Adesanya, the Speaker directed the clerk of the House to write a letter of condolence to the family.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment