Share this on WhatsApp



 
 
Senator representing Kaduna Central, Shehu Sani, says the administration President Muhammadu Buhari has been hijacked by invisible forces who have now disconnected it from the vision it started with.
Recall that Sani had last month resigned his membership of the ruling APC in protest and joined the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) due to his inability to secure the ticket of the APC for the 2019 elections despite assurances from the national working committee of the party.
Commenting on the crisis rocking the ruling party, the senator Sani said both President Buhari and the national Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole have become weak and helpless before APC governors.
He said the president is unable to curtail the powers of the governors and have succumbed to them.
“Well, if you look at his attitude to governance and his philosophy of being for everybody and nobody has led the party nowhere and it is also leading the party nowhere,” Sani said.
“While the chairman of the party sees the need to preserve the loyal band within the party, the governors don’t see the need for it. They want to plant their stooges. As far as I am concerned, the seat that I occupy, the Kaduna Central senatorial seat, Nasir el Rufai is putting a stooge there to keep the place for him so that after he is out of government, he can also be a senator.
“The governors see senatorial seats as places they should preserve for their future and that’s why you find some people going to the national assembly without standing up to do their work as parliamentarians, because they were there standing in for somebody.”
He also commended Bola Tinubu, a national leader of the ruling party, for his efforts at resolving the crisis rocking the party, but added that Tinubu could not do much because he is not from the north.
“I must be very frank with you, Tinubu has done his best but there is a limit to what he can do. He isn’t from the North and has a lot of issues to attend to but what was very clear, I won’t rain insults on the President or Chairman of the party, but what I would say is that their weaknesses, their vulnerability, their failures have been evident in the very sense that they were helpless in the face of firepower by the state governors.”
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment