Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the Buhari-led administration of insincerity to the plight of Nigerians, especially on the high cost of fuel pump price in the country.
In a statement by the opposition party stating how it plans to reduce the pump price of fuel from N145 to N90 per litre, the PDP accuse the President Buhari-led Government of diverting the sum of N58 out of every N145 Nigerians pays per litre of fuel.
This money remains unaccounted for, even as the Government has failed to “account for the over N1.4 trillion allegedly syphoned through sleazy oil subsidy deals,” the statement said.
According to the statement, this is something the incumbent President, Muhammadu Buhari and his administration has failed to do due to their “insensitivity” to Nigerians.
Furthermore, the PDP disclosed that it has met with some major global stakeholders in the oil industry who informed that the official pump price for fuel should be between N87 and N90, especially with an oil subsidy in place.
In the same vein, the opposition party said it has rejected the increase in the official pump prices of kerosene and diesel, two equally essential commodities which most private Nigerians and companies depend on for electricity generation.
Note that Nigerians currently spend N145 to purchase a litre of fuel which, by the way, is an essential commodity. This amount is almost double the N87 mark the product was priced back in 2015 when the present administration took over power.
“With the current price template of crude oil in the international market, the Buhari Administration has no justification to keep the pump price of fuel at N145 per litre and watch Nigerians groan under the weight of high prices, while a cabal at the presidency loot the funds meant to subsidise the product.” –PDP
The statement concluded by saying that Nigerians would never have to be subjected to Buhari’s Government were they lack transparency in their dealings. Now, Atikunomics is supposedly here to offer the solution that will work once and for all.
In the meantime, Mr Abubakar’s economic plans for Nigeria are completely dependent on whether he ever gets the opportunity to be president. He knows this, which is why he is using every means possible to sway the votes in his favour come early 2019.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment