Share this on WhatsApp
Report says Abdullahi Adebayo from Lagos, Nigeria earns $50,000 on a daily basis, without leaving his house.

“I think everyone has a dream, so did I. While I’ve been working for 2 years as a cashier in one of the stores, I haven’t got any closer to my dream! Now, I’m earning $50,000 per month, working on my PC at home, do you want to do the same? Some time ago I haven’t even thought that anyone here can earn more than $10,000 a month. I still can’t believe that I’ve managed to achieve this level and that’s really awesome. All of my dreams came true, thanks to the OLYMPTRADE APP”, claimsthe young chap.

How did it start?
I’m only 23 years old and about a year ago, I was working as a simple cashier. I thought that I have a good job, earning around $250 a month, I could easily cover all of my basic needs and even had some extra money to save for one of my biggest dreams – Mercedes AMG! During the two years of work, I’ve managed to save only $7400… I was hoping that maybe someday I would have enough money to buy it…

At just 24 yrs old, Abdullahi Adebayo has won the title of being Nigeria’s youngest multi-millionaire. This was a young boy that grew up in poverty, but refused to be broken by it. Instead poverty became a powerful motivator, that pushed him to make something of himself.

In an interview, he said ‘people always say Abdullahi you are such an inspiration, who inspired you? But my answer doesn’t change. I always tell them ‘Poverty‘.

So, how has he managed to buy my Mercedes AMG? 
The truth is, I got fired in November last year.. I didn’t give up, so I’d started to search for a job that would fit my personality. I wanted to work at home and in the best case scenario, to do something on my own. Some of my friends were telling that it’ a bad idea and I won’t go far with that.. I’ve already had a loan for a new phone and a loan for my laptop, so at one point, I thought that I won’t be able to cover it all (My new job, which is allowing me to earn more than $50,000 a month, has started from a simple registration on this mobile app (right after the registration, i’ve received $10000 on my demo account and started to test them out!).

So what prepared him for this?
Nothing could have prepared me for what happened since then. The money started building up so fast that I decided to quit my job and spend more time on trading. That was eight months ago and I’ve already been able to afford the car of my dreams.

Now I get to work from home for a few hours every day. And then I get to hop in my beautiful car and visit my old friends. They look at me a bit suspiciously, but I know they’re curious about how I managed to do it.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment