A number of players have adapted quickly to life at their new clubs and have show impressive form,National Daily learnt.
The Premier League season may only be three months old, but it is still plenty of time for new signings to have made an impact.
It was another busy transfer window in the summer of 2018, even if Tottenham Hotspur decided not to make a single purchase.
Around £1.26billion was spent bringing in players from far and wide as top flight clubs attempted to improve their teams.
But who have been the best signings so far?
While the latest international break is yet to conclude,National Daily gathered from talkSPORT.com compile a list of the best summer signing and how they have fared at their new clubs.
10. Matteo Guendouzi (Arsenal) – Signed for £7million from Lorient
Capable of dictating play with his excellent passing range, the 19-year-old midfielder has settled quickly in north London.
Impressive showings in defeats against Manchester City and Chelsea showed Guendouzi could hold his own in the Premier League, with Gunners fans voting him their Player of the Month for August.
9. David Brooks (AFC Bournemouth) – Signed for £11.5million from Sheffield United
Despite his slight build and youthful appearance, the 20-year-old has had no problem adapting to the physicality of top flight football.
The midfielder has started 10 of Bournemouth’s 11 league matches this season, scoring goals against Watford and Fulham.
8. Xherdan Shaqiri (Liverpool) – Signed for £13.5million from Stoke City
Hardly new to the Premier League, the former Stoke City star has raised his performance levels since making the summer switch to Anfield.
The Switzerland international has either scored or assisted in five of last Liverpool’s last six matches, leading many supporters urging Jurgen Klopp to keep him in the starting XI.
7. James Maddison (Leicester City) – Signed for £7million from Lorient
To many it would appear Maddison has played in the Premier League for his entire career given the way he has thrived since arriving from Norwich City.
Three goals and two assists for the Foxes earned the 21-year-old a first call-up to the England squad for their UEFA Nations League matches last month.
6. Kepa Arrizabalaga (Chelsea) – Signed for £71.6million from Athletic Bilbao
Moving to a massive club, replacing a goalkeeper of Thibaut Courtois’ stature and in the process becoming the most expensive player ever in that position, few would blame Kepa if he felt any pressure. However, the Chelsea No.1 has grown in confidence with each match and has gone largely unnoticed so far – always a positive sign for any keeper.
5. Jorginho (Chelsea) – Signed for £50million from Napoli
Following Maurizio Sarri over from Napoli, the Italy international has been crucial to the style of play the new Chelsea boss is trying to implement.
While his trademark one-touch football and control was lacking against Everton, Jorginho has still completed 1186 passes – more than any other player in the Premier League.
4. Lucas Torreira (Arsenal) – Signed for £26.4million from Sampdoria
After beginning the season on the bench, Torreira is now one of the first names on Unai Emery’s team-sheet.
Standing only 5’6, the 22-year-old is excellent at snuffing out danger and providing his defence with cover, but he is also a calm distributor of the ball offering the Arsenal midfield a new dimension they have lacked since the days of Gilberto Silva.
3. Rui Patricio (Wolverhampton Wanderers) – Signed for £16million from Sporting Lisbon
For any newly-promoted club a good start is crucial and Wolves have had just that in no small part to their European Championship winning goalkeeper.
Signed from Sporting Lisbon, Patricio has a save percentage of 76%, putting in notable performances as his side drew with both Manchester City and Manchester United.
2. Joao Moutinho (Wolverhampton Wanderers) – Signed for £5million from Monaco
Another player from Molineux and Portugal, Moutinho has added class and guile to the Wolves midfield.
Since arriving from Monaco, he has created more chances (10) for his teammates than any other player and scored a memorable equaliser at Old Trafford.
1. Richarlison (Everton) – Signed for £40million from Watford
Eyebrows were raised when the Brazilian moved from Watford for a hefty fee of £40million, but he has since gone about trying his best to repay it.
A brace on his Everton debut are among six Premier League goals for the Toffees, while his skills, dribbling and heading have made him the focal point of their attack.
He has also forced his way into the national team, scoring twice in four appearances

			
			PV: 
			0