Share this on WhatsApp



 
Suspected gunmen on Tuesday ambushed some soldiers in the Whirl Stroke operation in Benue state were ambushed, injuring a captain in the process.
In a post on Defence headquarters twitter handle, the injured officer was identified as Captain Zakari Sani.
“The team of doctors and other medical staff including expatriate are attending to the officer whose situation though serious is getting better by the day.  He has undergone several medical procedures which have helped to stabilised him further,” the statement read.
“The CDS has placed Medical Surveillance on the officer for eventual medical evacuation outside the country. It should be noted that foreign medical evacuation is a process that is done with the advice of the medical doctor that is administering the stabilization treatment.
“Otherwise the intended objective may not be achieved when evacuated abroad.The #Military takes care of the medical needs of her personnel, including her retired colleagues. As necessary, various cases are sent on Medevac, especially those personnel wounded in active service.”
In another related development, more than 10 soldiers have been reported missing following an attack on a military base in Kukawa, Borno state.
The incident happened Monday evening when trucks loaded with gunmen believed to be Boko Haram insurgents moved into Kukawa, attacking a market and dislodging the troops.
“It is getting serious, and the whereabouts of more than 10 soldiers is yet unknown,” a soldier at the Lafiya Dole theatre command said.
“A reinforcement team has been deployed to the area for a search and rescue op, and we are hoping to get over this.”
The Islamic State in West Africa (ISWA), a faction of the Boko Haram sect, has claimed responsibility for the attack.
The insurgents said they have burnt government buildings and taken over Kukawa.
There are reports that many lives were lost and the insurgents have taken charge of military equipment.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment