Share this on WhatsApp

Set to return home




By SUNDAY ODIBASHI
The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 general elections, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has ended his vacation in Dubai, United Arab Emirate (UAE) where he has spent about three weeks after winning the ticket of the PDP at the National Convention in Port Harcourt, Rivers State.
The PDP presidential candidate departed Dubai at the weekend for Saudi Arabia from where he is expected to be airborne back to Nigeria. He is expected back to the country this week.
National Daily reports that while in Dubai, Atiku received several guests across the world who were in Dubai for consultations with the PDP candidate on the 2019 elections. Some of the visitors were there to pledge their support.
PDP leaders also visited Atiku while he was in Dubai.
Several leaders from the European Union were also said to have sent emissaries to Atiku in Dubai for consultations on the Nigerian elections, some giving advice.
Atiku’s vacation in Dubai dowsed tension across the Nigeria, the polity has remained unusually calm while supporters of the PDP presidential candidate sustained grassroots mobilization of support across the length and breadth of the country.
There were insinuations that the APC government has been working assiduously to block channels through which funds are brought into the country. The federal government was said to be vigilant to purportedly block Atiku from moving funds into the country from overseas.
Meanwhile, while on vacation, the Director General of the Atiku Campaign Organisation, Otunba Gbange Daniel, firmly held forth in keeping activities going at the Campaign Office and engaging in interaction in different parts of the country.
Atiku’s return us expected to give impetus to several activities in the preparations for the takeoff of electioneering campaign which the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed for November 18, 2019.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment