Share this on WhatsApp



 

No time for cover up, says saraki

The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Adams Oshiomole has threatened to sue Senate President Dr. Bukola Saraki over an allegation linking him with bribery.
Recall that Saraki had during the remembrance ceremony of his late father on Wednesday called on Oshiomhole to resign his position following allegation of bribery leveled against him by some aspirants in the APC.
“Oshiomhole is somebody who has been told to have been collecting not even naira but dollars from candidates and he is being accused by his party’s aspirants and governors,” Saraki was quoted to have said.
“I don’t think he has any moral ground, even to continue to be in politics not to talk about being a chairman of a party.
However, in a statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to Oshiomhole, Simon Ebegbulem, he threatened to file a law suit against Saraki if he fails to mention the names of APC party members who reportedly bribed him to serve their cause.
“It is sad that Saraki, who just woke up from slumber occasioned by his crushing defeat at the Port Harcourt presidential primary of his party, could degenerate to such a low level.
“It is equally sad, but not unexpected, that Saraki, who is politically drowning, would make such libelous comments against the national chairman of the APC. And I challenge Saraki to mention one name of an aspirant that gave money to the National Chairman or we file a legal action against him.
“Whereas the basis on which he made those comments was tenuous and unjustifiable, it is on record that Saraki has been in the eye of investigations by the EFCC and the ICPC for sundry cases of corruption.
“That is the same man that has taken it upon himself to question Comrade Oshiomhole’s credibility.”
“We challenge him to mention one person who has claimed that he gave money to Oshiomhole to influence him and the decision of the party’s national working committee in the just-concluded primary elections.”
Meanwhile, in a statement issued by Dr. Saraki’s Special Adviser on Media & Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, Saraki said the president’s fight against corruption might carry no significance if he fails to look into the allegations levelled against his party chairman.
“We expect the President with his anti-corruption campaign to institute thorough and transparent investigation into the allegations against his party chairman.
“The failure of the President to get to the root of the matter will finally destroy his ability and that of the party to continue to talk of any anti-graft battle. The President should let the investigation be thorough, open and transparent. This is no time for any cover-up”, the statement reads.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment