By Esther Egbe

Nigeria sports betting firm, Bet9ja, has made available over one million naira (N1,000,000.00) only as winning incentives as twenty-four teams start hostilities at the inaugural edition of Bet9ja/Enugu F.A neighborhood football championship that kicks off November 12, 2018 in four centers of the state,National Daily learnt.

This much was revealed by the organizing committee led by Emehelu Ikenna and Enugu state F.A chairman, Chidi Ofo Okenwa at a well attended tournament draws that took place inside the boardroom of the football association, recently.

Amongst the teams registered for the tournament that would run for three weeks in the four centers approved by the organizers are Coal Camp F.C, Iva Valley United, Emene United, Omeife F.C, Purple Krown F.C, Ingas F.C, Young Stars F.C, Okwudili F.C and others.

Hon. Okenwa told National Daily that all logistics for a great tournament has been provided while warning all participating teams that all FIFA rules would be applied in the tournament.

“Let me inform us that all that is needed for a successful tournament has been provided by the sponsors who are bringing the game back to the people. I must also warn all teams participating teams that all FIFA rules would be applied at all matches. I wish all teams the best as we hope to discover some new burden talents in this tournament,” stated the NFF executive committee member.

Also reacting to questions, Emehelu said, “Bet9ja is coming into this to ensure that our customers are given opportunities to practice what they love. It is for ages 18 years and above. We hope to have a great tournament with the directions from the F.A.”

The opening games is scheduled to be between Coal Camp F.C and Real Madrid F.C scheduled for Monday, November 12, 2018 at UNEC stadium after an elaborate opening ceremony.

Participating teams were presented with complete sets of jerseys and other documents needed for the smooth running of tournament.

Other members of the organizing committee are; Onyeama Anthony, Udeh Kester, Godwin Ugwu, Ujunwa Mgbada, Asorchi Chuka, Anthony Uchenna, Ukeh Chukwudi, Chibueze Chukwudi and Francis Ugwu, the F.A secretary and tournament director.


			
			Post Views: 
			266