Share this on WhatsApp



 
Christmas season is around the corner again and all kinds of life poultry will soon hit the markets. If you’re ready to cook one of the millions of chickens, turkeys that are eaten during this period, you should be aware of some of the health risks that can come from consuming poorly prepared chickens.
Researchers at the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Food Safety and Inspection Service have discovered a deadly salmonella outbreak associated with turkeys.
The outbreak was found in turkey product samples from September 11, 2018, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reports that 164 people in 35 states have been infected so far from the salmonella strain.
They say 63 people have been hospitalized and one person died. Salmonella bacteria affects the intestinal tract and can lead to diarrhea, fever, and stomach cramps within 72 hours, according to Mayo Clinic.
Dr. William Schaffner, an infectious disease specialist at the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, said that it’s important we all recognize that turkeys — like all poultry — aren’t reared in sterile environments. They can be contaminated with bacteria that can cause these types of diarrheal illnesses.
“Usually, this leads to diarrhea, aches, pains, and fever that… can take a few nasty days to get better for most people,” Schaffner said.
“This kind of bacteria can leave the intestinal tract, enter the bloodstream, and lead to more serious life-threatening infections. It does happen, so I think a few lessons of caution and good advice would be appropriate to keep in mind.”
He said there are three key recommendations he’d usually make. First, wash your hands and clean any surfaces frequently on which you would typically place your turkey.
Secondly, given that we often buy our turkeys frozen, he said that we should defrost them in the refrigerator and not leave them out to sit in open air.
“If you leave them out, they will get to room temperature, which is an opportunity for bad bacteria to multiply,” he cautioned.
Tamika Sims, PhD, director of food technology communications at the International Food Information Council Foundation, echoed Schaffner’s advice.
Sims said that whenever you prepare to cook a turkey, or any other meat or poultry product, you should make sure you store it properly.
Sims said that beyond Salmonella — which we’ve seen outbreaks of from cucumbers, fruits, pistachios, peanut butter, eggs, and frozen chicken — Listeria monocytogenes is another bacteria tied to recent turkey and other deli meat recalls.
“This bacterium can be commonly found in the environment, meaning it has the ability to grow on farms and can be found in intestines of farm animals,” she said.
“As with Salmonella, cooking meat and poultry properly can kill Listeria and help one avoid foodborne illness. Additionally, proper prep that involves avoiding cross-contamination is also key.”
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment