Share this on WhatsApp





The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has intensified its assault on the former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, while the former governor is still undergoing prosecution in court. Yet to be convicted, EFCC proceeded to seal houses suspected to be owned by Fayose in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State.
National Daily gathered that buildings confiscated by the EFCC include a house located at Fajuyi Park beside the old Mr. Biggs in Ado Ekiti, designed as Civic Centre for event management business, a two-storey building at Okesa, the building accommodating the radio station, Peoples Voice 104.1 FM, and two houses located at GRA, all in Ado Ekiti.
It was also gathered that the sealing of the houses were done one month after Ekiti State Ministry of Urban and Physical Planning sealed off a house allegedly linked to Fayose at GRA in Ado-Ekiti.
The EFCC operatives were said to have invaded the residence at about 10.35am on Thursday to paste the restriction order; which read: “Order from EFCC: This structure is under investigation, keep off”.
Meanwhile, the trail of Fayose continues in the Federal High after he had been granted bail to the sum of N50 million.
It would appear the EFCC may not have really sealed houses belonging to Fayose and may be taking the action for cheap blackmail. The former governor has so declared that houses of innocent persons are being sealed by EFCC to attribute ownership of such property to him.
National Daily also gathered that Fayose, however, accused the EFCC of sealing houses belonging to innocent citizens in the state.
The former Ekiti State Governor in a statement by his media aide, Lere Olayinka, declared that he was informing the public ahead of the EFCC’s usual blackmail and media trial.
The statement read: “Just been informed that operatives of the EFCC in collaboration with the APC government in Ekiti are going about sealing houses of innocent people in the state, under the guise that the houses are linked to me.
“This is another wild goose chase and the usual media campaign against my person.
“It is only in our country that an anti-corruption agency will first go about sealing houses before determining the ownership, which can be done so easily by visiting relevant agencies.
“I am therefore informing the public ahead of their usual blackmail and media trial.
“None of the properties in question is owned by me and the records are there for anyone that is interested to see.
“The EFCC is advised to stop going about looking for ways to malign my person just because of their hatred as a result of my uncompromising stands on national issues.
“Even if the commission is being pressured from ‘above’ to persecute Fayose at all cost, it should at least, do its job diligently to save itself from persistent embarrassment.”






Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment