Share this on WhatsApp



 
Angry reactions have continued trailing the visit of beauty queens from 55 African countries to Owerri, the Imo State capital, who were invited by Governor Rochas Okorocha.
Most people who reacted to the development said they believed the governor “imported” the beauty queens without a reason useful to the state economically or socially.
Check yesterday revealed that the 55 African beauty queens touched down weekend at the Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport, SMICA, Owerri.
Reacting to the development, inquiries were in agreement that “the importation of the African queens shows the level of recklessness of the present Okorocha administration”.
A chieftain of All Progressives Congress, APC, and former chairman of Aboh Mbaise local government area, Dr. Ikay Njoku said he did not see any good reason for the importation of the girls, charging Okorocha to tell the people of the state why he invited the girls.
In his reaction, the state Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Hon. Damian Oparah, described it as “a senseless jamboree aimed at promoting immorality and idolatry”.
According to Oparah,” this has clearly proved that the administration is not bothered that many families can no longer feed themselves in this day and age.
“The governor should tell Imolites what the visit of the so called beauty queens from 55 African countries has added to the sagging economic fortunes of the state and it’s citizens. It is absolutely reckless for the governor to have gone into this wasteful venture now”, Hon. Oparah said.
In his reaction, an Owerri based social critic, Prince Bob Njemanze, sought to know the relevance of the event to the reality on ground.
“It is not in doubt that this man is deceitful. This is a continuation of the madness for the man who doesn’t have an idea of what good governance is all about”, Njemanze said.
He recalled that “initially, Governor Okorocha tried to invite African first ladies using the less privileged persons as a bait, but Imolites knew it was a self-serving purpose.
“I will advocate for a psychiatric evaluation for people aspiring for a position of governance and a mental rehabilitation for people in office, who are suspected or confirmed to be deranged. This is where this type of excesses fall in”, Njemanze said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment