Share this on WhatsApp



 
Palatial homes of former petroleum minister, Diezani Alison-Madueke, former governor of Ekiti state were among several houses seized by the Economic and Financial crimes Commission (EFCC) in the last three years, National Daily has gathered.
In the report compiled by the anti-graft agency and made available to National Daily,
Former governors, ex-ministers, top military officers and businessmen are among owners of the properties seized by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
Madueke lost a multi-storey building in Banana Island Foreshore estate in Ikoyi, a real estate comprising six flats in Ikoyi and an estate of 21 mixed housing in Yaba, Lagos, among others.
Two properties owned by Sambo Dasuki, former national security adviser, in Kaduna and Abuja were also forfeited to the federal government.
Also, Haruna Momoh, a former managing director of PPMC, a subsidiary of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), reportedly lost two mansions in Maitama district, Abuja to the temporary forfeiture order.
The anti-graft agency also secured the final seizure of Flat 7B at Osborne Towers in Ikoyi where $43.45 million cash was recovered.
Other owners of the seized properties include Ibrahim Shema, ex-governor of Katsina stae, (20); Ayodele Fayose, ex-governor of Ekiti state (three); Babangida Aliyu, ex-governor of Niger state, (two); Bello Mohammed former national chairman of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (one); Iyorchia Ayu, former senator (one); Isa Yuguda, former governor of Bauchi state, (one) and Abba Moro, ex-minister of interior (one) and Micheal Obasuyi, ex-managing director of Platinum Multi-purpose Cooperative Society Limited, who bought 134 buses, 20 houses with N11.4 billion slush cash.
According to Ibrahim Magu, EFCC chairman, about 407 mansions were seized by the agency from 2015 to 2018.
Magu said the forfeited assets have been handed over to the federal government for use by ministries, departments and agencies.
“Hundreds of properties such as filling stations, petroleum products, land, jewellery, automobiles, real estate, vessels, hospitals, company shares and heavy machinery and broadcast equipment, have been seized from corrupt elements between 2015 and 2018,” he said.
“From 2015 to 2018, 407 mansions were seized, 126 have been forfeited finally and 281 are under interim forfeiture.
Magu also disclosed that nine filling stations were seized and placed under interim forfeiture, adding that total landed properties seized within the period totaled 98, of which 56 are under interim forfeiture while 42 have been forfeited finally to the federal government.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment