Share this on WhatsApp
Former Kwara United chairman Alhaji Toyin Olokoba has rubbished reports that he is no longer interested in the next state FA election,National Daily learnt.

There have been reports that Olokoba who is the current SA political to Governor Fatah Ahmed has opted out of the race to fight for the position of the FA chairman.

But the chairman of the Ilorin East Football Association made it clear that he is so much interested and also qualified to be the next Kwara FA supremo.

He also stated emphatically that it is time for the current FA chairman Busari Ishola who has spent 8 years to leave the office so that football can move to the next level in Kwara State.

Olokoba however frowned at the level football is presently in Kwara State stressing that things have been stagnant.

“I am very interested in the fight to become the next Kwara FA chairman because I have paid my dues in football and I have no fear of any opponent.

“I have successfully passed through all the cadres of football in Kwara before I got to the level of being the chairman of Ilorin East Football Association.

“Things have been stagnant in Kwara and we need to do many things for the development of football in this state.

“We no longer have any referee at the national level or in any FIFA competition and also players at the national senior team or even the home based which is not good for the development of football in the state, ” Olokoba explained.

Olokoba who is also the publisher of the National Moonlight Newspaper added that there is no opponent among others candidates that can compete with his records in football in the state.

He therefore challenged other opponents for an open debate to talk on what makes them qualified candidates to become an FA chairman.

Meanwhile, Olokoba will face competition for the position of the Kwara FA chairmanship election from the likes of current chairman Ishola Busari, Ex NPL board member Owolabi Wopa and Idris Jibril.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment