Share this on WhatsApp



 
A non-partisan group, Etsako Citizens Club, has thrown their weight behind the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, over the bribery allegation leveled against him.
In a statement signed by both the President, Malik Adams and the Secretary, Dr. Godwin Umoru and made available to National Daily,  Etsako Citizens Club said the refusal of Oshiomhole, who is an indigene of Etsako in Edo state, to accept tempting bribes in foreign currencies offered by some governors has become his albatross.
It said rather than commend Comrade Oshiomhole for his courage in resisting such temptations and being courageous in forcing such political godfathers to embrace internal democracy, he is now unfortunately the object of investigation, harassment and persecution.
“While trusting Comrade Oshiomhole to be able to defend himself having fought fiercer battles in the past, the Club will not fold its hands while their own is being unnecessarily harassed and intimidated for upholding fairness and transparency in the conduct of the recently concluded primaries of the ruling party – the APC.”
The group said since the conclusion of primaries of the various political parties for the election of aspirants to elective positions, the print and electronic media have been inundated with allegations and counter allegations of various dimensions.
It said some of such allegations border on non-compliance with party guidelines, imposition and substitution of names of candidates against some Governors, State Chairmen of Political parties, political godfathers and the National Working Committees of the various political parties.
“The Club is therefore miffed that for upholding the provisions of the party’s constitution and electioneering guidelines of the APC, only the Chairman of NWC of the ruling party, APC, Comrade Aliu Oshiomhole’s name has been singled out for unmerited bashing.”
According to the group, Oshiomhole is deliberately being maligned for upholding the guidelines and principles of his political party with honesty of purpose, truth, fairness and transparency in the performance of his duties.
The group which said it would go to any length in protecting one of their own who is being maligned unjustly, demanded that President Muhammadu Buhari call the DSS to order and allow the rule of law prevail in the investigations by the appropriate agencies.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment