Share this on WhatsApp



The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has joined other stakeholders in welcoming President Muhammadu Buhari to Edo State next Tuesday on working visit.
Edo PDP, however, in a petition by the State Chairman, Chief Dan Osi Orbih, reminded President Buhari that the ‘Give Star Hospital’ he was invited to commission about two years ago when Oshiomhole was Governor of the State, turned to be a fraud as such hospital does not exist in the state.
“Just before the inauguration of the present administration, you paid a visit to Edo State. In the course of your visit, the, then, Governor, Adams Aliyu Eric Oshiomole, invited you to commission the so-called “Five Star hospital” built and purportedly equipped by his administration.
“It may interest you to know that since your visit in 2016, the “Five Star hospital” has neither recorded any out-patient, nor admitted any in-patient. Today, the building hosts rodents and reptiles.
“It is now obvious that Governor Adams Oshiomole cleverly executed the project as a scam to defraud the state and deny the people access to good health facilities.
“Our concern over this despicable act, Mr. President, is not just that billions of taxpayers’ money was sunk into this phoney project but you were persuaded to commission a nonexistent hospital that makes it look like you were party to the deceit and fraud,” Edo PDP declared.
The State PDP noted that Edo people are now used to the fact that Adams can do anything to deceive the people to enrich himself, adding “we are embarrassed at the attempt to use your person to commission a building that has only served as a center for internally displaced reptiles in Benin City.”
Welcoming President Buhari to Edo State, PDP demanded the president to pay a second visit to the Central Hospital to enable gin understand the disappointment of the people over the Central Hospital scandal of fraud and deceit. The State PDP leadership demanded the president to direct relevant government agencies to commence immediate investigation and necessary action to bring the principal actors to book.
They also urged the president to prevail on the Edo State government to avail Edo people the dividends of democracy, particularly, in the health sector.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment