Share this on WhatsApp



Governor Kayode Fayemi have sought the intervention of the Senate for the refund of N21 billion spent on the construction and rehabilitation of federal roads in the state.
Fayemi made the appeal while receiving members of the Senate Committee on Works who were on oversight inspection visit to federal roads and other projects in the state.
The Senate Committee, led by the Chairman, Sen. Kabiru Gaya, was received on behalf of the governor by his deputy, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi.
Other members of the committee on the visit were Sen. Biodun Olujimi, Senator Clifford Odia and Sen. Mustapha Sani.
The senators were joined by staff members of the National Assembly and officials of Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA).
Fayemi said that he was not satisfied with the number of federal, adding that he would not relent until projects such as railways and airport become a reality in the state.
He argued that no amount had been refunded despite the fact that the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, had certified the expenditure of N11 billion out of the N21 billion spent by the state government on the maintenance of federal roads across the
state.
The governor further solicited the intervention of the Federal Government in the completion of the dualisation of Ado-Akure Road and the rehabilitation of Ado-Aramoko-Ijero Road, Ado-Ifaki-Ilorin Road
and Ifaki-Omuo Road.
Fayemi said: “We wish to use the opportunity of your visit to also present the following request to you, trusting you that you will use your good offices to help us.
“The Ado-Ifaki-Ilorin Road, part of which was reconstructed the other time, but was badly done; we wish you travel on these roads, especially Ado-Ilorin Road.
“Then, apart from that, Ifaki-Omuo Road is begging for total reconstruction. It is a journey that should not take more than an hour but now takes two hours, thirty minutes to get to the town.
“Ado-Ikare Road needs to be dualized; we have done part of it. It is my hope and prayer that the outcome of this tour will have a significant and positive impact on the infrastructural development of
this zone.”
Earlier in his speech, Gaya, promised that more federal road projects in Ekiti State would be included in the 2019 budget.
“I learnt that there were few projects done by the Federal Government in the state even though Senator Biodun Olujimi and Senator Fatimat Raji Rasaki are working hard to ensure that new projects come into the state.
“Presently, we are working on Efon Alaaye-Itawure-Iwaraja Road. Hopefully, the contractor handling the project will deliver it by March next year.
“I think Ekiti State needs more roads by the Federal Government and I believe Governor Fayemi is dynamic and very hardworking
“We have gone round to see the roads; we have seen where we want the contractors to move fast and some, we asked for the termination of the contracts because we will not allow people to misuse government
money for personal interest.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment