Share this on WhatsApp


charge others to emulate his selflessness

By Lanre Adesanya 

Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has joined stakeholders in Ikorodu to appreciate High Chief Owolabi Salis unmatched selfless service to humanity, citing the fact that he had successfully turned eligible job seekers into employers of labour.


Ambode who was represented by the Lagos State Commissioner for Urban Development and Physical Planning,Mr Rotimi Ogunleye, made official presentation of the Ikorodu Oga Development Association (IKODASS) Merit Award to Salis describing his selfless contribution to development of human resources in the state as a worthy sample of a rare breed.

According to Ambode IKODASS is a communal get together that bring together sons and daughters of Ikorodu and Lagos citizen with a positive effect on their commerce and economic advancement.

“In another one month Lagos fiesta will commence, Ikorodu Hall is one of the centres where musicians and artiste will entertain Lagosians,government will continue to partner with traditional rulers and distinguished sons and daughter of Ikorodu to take Lagos on a higher pedestal.

Salis a recipient of the prestigious IKODASS, Merit Award at the 2018 Ikorodu Oga day was eulogized repeatedly by the Ayangburen of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Shotobi a clear cut attestation of his generosity and large
hearthedness, for which he prayed good political fortune for him in his 2019. gubernatorial aspiration in the state.
“Owolabi that I know of followed me all through Maryland it was a small journey abroad, Owolabi that I know of he contributed immensely to the development of the new palace, Owolabi that I know of had received role model award from Ikodass before.I pray you succeed in your political journey.” Says the monarch.




Receiving awards flanked by his wife, Owolabi Salis noted that aside the awards he intend to notify the gathering about his Intendment to jostle for the office of the governor in the state.
I want us to value our culture,in Cuba they even dress up in our attires and pose for pictures at the rate of a dollar per snap, people appreciate our Ikorodu modes of dressing in diaspora we should value what we have
Earlier the Ikodass chairman, Otunba Olusegun Abiru who was the former clerk of the Lagos Assembly, expressed profound gratitude of the people of Ikorodu for Salis’  good deeds which cut across the state,in relation to various individuals who have benefited immensely from his skill acquisition initiatives.

“The Merit Award to one of son of the soil Hon. Barr. Salis who has trained several hundreds in this community and many of whom employers of labour is not a mean feat and it is deeply appreciated.
Abiru noted the event mark the 27th edition of the yearly celebration, charging the over a hundred associations listed to adopt a project in the community that will be credited to them after completion.
Adding that politicians who had misgivings over the outcome of the last party primaries  should close ranks and avoid turning Ikorodu into a theater of war.




 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment