Share this on WhatsApp



 
The concerned youths of Oriade Local Council Development Area in Amuwo
Odofin constituency II, have pleaded with the National Leader of the
All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the party’s
national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomole and other stakeholders not
to give in to the antics of some unscrupulous individuals who intends
to muzzle the people’s will, ahead of the 2019 general elections.
The group said that the constituents all indicated their support for
Hon. Rauf Olawale, as the flag bearer of APC in Amuwo Odofin II with
an overwhelming vote at the primaries and any untoward moves to
subvert their will be resisted.
According to Ishawu Yinusa Oriade Lcda Concerned Youths coordinator,we
will like to draw the attention of our national leader and all
stakeholders in party to the purported plan to subvert the will of the
people by some personalities at the Lagos State House of Assembly.
“We want them to know that winning all our elections is germane to us
as they will be busy feathering their nests in their respective
constituencies.
“We are saying, we are completely tired of unpopular candidates that
often give us sleepless nights during electioneering process and yet
we lose as if we’re foreigners in our place of abode.
“The Independent National Electoral Commission INEC has displayed Hon
Rauf Olawale as the winner and flagbearer of our great party APC in
Amuwo Odofin constituency 2 on the 9th of November 2018 and yet we see
certain elements defying the party decision.
“We are saying any plan or plans to scuttle the will of the people
will not go down well with everybody in the local government and to
some extent, the Badagry axis. We hereby call on our Asiwaju Bola
Ahmed Tinubu to warn and caution any groups or individual involved in
this attempt to desist.
It will be recalled that Hon Rauf Olawale emerged victorious having
polled 2208 votes to beat his rival Hon. Akeem Bello who also polle d
1,486.
“ Oriade residents, the youths and entire populace have hailed the
aftermath of the election as ‘a hero’s welcome’ for their most
wanted son and as such willingly ready to double their efforts to
canvass and work very hard to make sure all APC candidate are
victorious in the coming general elections.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment