By Lanre Adesanya
Nigeria Model United Nations Society had admonished Nigerian youths to inculcate the virtue of tolerance to engender a secured society for all.
Mr Chika Nwaozuzu, the Chairman, Governing Council of the Society made the plea at the 4th Lagos Regional Secondary Schools Model United Nations (LARSSMUN) Conference held in Lagos.
The event was tagged, “Engaging Youth in the Fight Against Intolerance, Indiscrimination
and Hate Crime’’.
The conference brought together students from various International Schools and featured delegates from various committee of the UN.
Nwaozuzu said: “Young people are ready; we are charging the young people to tolerate one another, this will also translate to the larger
society in order to bring about the desired change.
“These young people are from different tribes and schools, they might necessarily not agree on some things but at the end of day they would pass a resolution.
“Our advice to the youth is to be at the vanguard of the fight against intolerance, discrimination and hate crime, this is very
important in nation-building.’’
Nwaozuzu advised young people to understand the world around them for nation building, saying that the conference had impacted many students positively.
He said that the society was a replica of United Nations with several committees dealing with world issues such as security, economic and
social, and human rights councils among others.
According to him, the conference chooses the students on merits having partaken in an essay writing programme and excelled.
In her remarks, the Secretary- General of LARSSMUN, Miss Chisom Udeh said that peace was the most important commodity in the world.
Udeh, who was represented by Miss Damilola Solola, the Co-Secretary-General of LARSSMUN emphasised the need for tolerance in
the promotion of world peace.
“Intolerance, discrimination and hate crime are social vices that we need to nib at its bud. It affects every one of us directly so we must
fight collectively against it,’’ Udeh said.
Lidia Jojy a delegate of African Union Nigeria Champion the course against discrimination,charging everyone to thirst after making the world better than selfish interest.
Venkat Narayana, a delegate from France Security council, urge the youths to build stop gaps against discriminating tendencies.
“Religion,language,culture and ethnic consciousness tend to divide us,we must stop discriminating tendency,that keeps dividing people from the course of unity, we need to build on the strength inherent in diversity.
A member of LARSSMUN’s Governing Board, Mrs Funmito Agusto said there was an urgent need to groom youngsters towards leadership, in terms of capacity and skills.
“This gathering is very symbolic. We are grooming young adults to learn what it takes to govern the world, it will benefit the world.
“They will know how to deliberate on issues and offer solutions. They also learn how to be interactive.
“We are making in route into schools to inculcate this in the children, so that they will be more accommodating wherever they go,
not minding the diversities,’’ she said.
According to her, each person, irrespective of gender must play a relevant role.
One of the participants, Miss Chinelo Okuri, who commended the leadership of LARSSMUN, said that respect for one another could ensure peace.
Also, Miss Rufiat Lamidi said that people must learn to accept others the way they are to promote tolerance.

			
			Post Views: 
			131