Share this on WhatsApp



 
There are indications that the hazy cloud over the entry into the United States of America (USA) by the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, has been cleared. The issue has dominated discussions by critics of the PDP candidate and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) since Atiku picked the PDP ticket. The signal of Atiku’s new romance with the US Government sprang from the Director General of the Atiku Campaign Organisation, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, who in Abuja revealed that officials of the United States have hinted the Atiku Abubakar, that he would get a U.S. visa if he applies for one now. The DG was of the view that the speculation that Atiku was barred from entering US was mere perception of the propagandists.
Daniel had on Channels Television programme, Politics Today, said: “I can also confirm to you that in last few days that there have been signals from the American officials that he (Atiku) should indeed come forward so he can be granted visa. So between you and I, all the issues are perception.”
Daniel had further stated that the perception of corruption that had tarred the image of Abubakar over the years was misplaced.
Gbenga Daniel declared: “Well, my opinion is that the issue appears to have been over-flogged. I remember when we were running the campaign in the primaries and everybody kept confronting us on this perception and we brought it out in the open that indeed it is no more than perception, politically motivated perception which, unfortunately, appears not to have stopped.
“By and large, I think as we move toward the real issues, people would just realise that this is just politically motivated issues. I have repeatedly said that this is not a Banana Republic. Nigeria as a people, we know our weaknesses, anything that is negative about our leaders, we are ready to believe it.
“But until when (corruption) charges are pressed, as far as we are concerned, there are no issues there. If you look at the newspapers in the last few days, we have read statement issued by the (U.S.) state department that they have no issues or whatsoever with Atiku Abubakar.”
Apparently, the stage is set to articulate the main agenda of the 2019 electioneering campaign; and Atiku and his team appear set to storm the 36 states of the federation with the PDP blue print for Nigeria’s development.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment