Share this on WhatsApp



 
The visit of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Wednesday and his meetings various stakeholders in the zone yielded positive results for the PDP candidate, which include his instant endorsement by Igbo leaders for the 2019 presidential race.
National Daily gathered that leaders of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Igbo Leaders of Thought, the political elite, the intelligentsia, women groups, youth associations, were united in endorsing Atiku, promising their massive support because of his belief in restructuring.
In a communiqué after a consultative meeting between Atiku, Peter Obi and Igbo leaders in Enugu on Wednesday read on behalf of the Ndigbo by Chief Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), the Igbo leaders declared: “The Igbo people of Nigeria held a one day non-partisan and inclusive summit, convened by elders, traditional and religious leaders on November 14, 2018, to consider Ndigbo’s place in the polity, especially, in the light of the forthcoming 2019 elections.
“The summit deliberated on the state on Ndigbo in Nigeria today, especially, after years of exclusion from the centre. This country has never been so divided as it is today. We, Igbo, have always yearned for a level playing field with justice, equity and fairness.
“The summit recognised the nomination of His Excellency, Peter Obi, former Governor of Anambra State, as the vice presidential candidate of the PDP and fully endorse this nomination. It was acknowledged that this nomination puts Ndigbo back to the centre of governance. It is, therefore, important that Ndigbo should rally behind the Atiku/Obi ticket.
“We identify with Atiku/Obi ticket on the restructuring agenda as has been reiterated by the four zones of the country, namely South-South, South West, North Central and South East. We believe that as long as the federating units remain weak, the centre will continue to be weak. We equally move to appreciate the position of the Atiku/Obi ticket in promoting national unity.
“In conclusion, the summit reiterated that the time is now for Ndigbo to mobilise and organise effectively, realise the Atiku/Obi ticket. We are not campaigning against anybody, we are simply campaigning for our very survival. Igbo votes must count wherever they leave in Nigeria.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment