Share this on WhatsApp

The board of the Nigeria Women Football League, headed by Aisha Falode, has appointed one of its board members, Rt. Honourable Margaret Icheen, as the Coordinator of the Nigeria Women’s Pro-League which has been scheduled to hold in Abuja and Benin City, Edo State from November 18, 2018.

The NWFL boss, Aisha Falode, who confirmed the appointment Tuesday afternoon, stated that the board has no doubt that, Honourable Icheen, would carry out her duties without fear or favour and with utmost dexterity.

“After carefully selecting her for the job, we are convinced that Honourable Icheen who is the serving Chairman of the Benue State Football Association, is the best person for the job considering the high standard of the pro-league.”

Icheen, a former Speaker of the Benue State House of Assembly, will work with the Chief Operating Officer of the NWFL, Alhaji Ayo Abdulrahman in the administration of the Pro-League.

Falode, advised that all the seven clubs that will participate in the pro-league, should show high level discipline in all the games they will play.

She noted: “With discipline, the teams will give their best in the play-off and wouldn’t have to wait for any undue influence from any quarter to achieve desired goals.
“They must have it at the back of their minds that, only their best performances will guarantee them promotion to the Premier League.”

The Nigeria Women’s Pro-League play-off will be played in Abuja and Edo with one team from each centre qualifying for the NWPL. The teams are FC Saadatu Amazons, Gift of Life Intl FC, Faith Hill Queens and Invincible Angels playing in Group A at the FIFA Goal Project in Abuja, and Group B will play in Benin City with Moje Queens FC, Police Female Machine and Dream Stars Ladies slugging it out.

In the opening matches in Abuja on November 19, FC Saadatu Amazons will battle Gift of Life FC, and Invincible Angels slug it out with Faith Hill Queens.

The Group B opening game also on November 19, would see Moje Queens battle Police Female Machine.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment