Share this on WhatsApp



President Muhammadu Buhari expresses the belief that Nigerians from both Muslim and Christian faiths can live together in peace.
Buhari says Muslims and Christians must behave compassionate for each other in order to live peaceably in Nigeria.
The president dismisses the suggestion that the herdsmen and farmers clashes is as a result religious factors.
President Muhammadu Buhari has dismissed allegations that he is trying to Islamise Nigeria as nonsense.
The president made the statement on Friday, November 30, in a write-up where he expressed the belief that Nigerians from both Muslim and Christian faiths could live together in peace.
Buhari said he along with the millions of Christians in Nigeria believes in lofty virtues such as peace, tolerance, reconciliation, honour, hope and compassion.
He said Muslims and Christians must behave compassionate for each other in order to live peaceably with each other. The president stated that he believes that there is far more that unites Muslims and Christians than divides them.
He faulted accusations that he trying to Islamise Nigeria, noting that Vice-president Osinbajo who is a devout Christian pastor is also being accused of selling out his religion because of his support for the current administration.
The president also dismissed the suggestions that the herdsmen farmers clashes had a religious undertone. He said the clashes were not religious or theological, but temporal due to both by climate change and population growth.
Part of the write-up from Buhari read: “I stand accused — paradoxically — of trying to Islamise Nigeria while also being accused by Boko Haram terrorists of being against Islam. My Vice-President is a devout man, a Christian pastor. He, too, is accused of selling out his religion, because of his support for me.
“This is not the first time that I — nor, indeed, my Christian-Muslim evenly split cabinet — have been the subject of such nonsense. Fortunately, the facts speak differently from the words of those who seek to divide us from one another.
“Since my administration has been in power, Boko Haram has been significantly and fatally degraded; I have befriended church leaders and church groups both within and outside our country; my Vice-President has addressed and opened dialogue with Muslims up and down our land.
“In all things, we seek that which all well-meaning Christians and well-meaning Muslims must seek: to unite, respect, and never to divide. Does it not say “There is no compulsion in religion” (Qur’an 2.256)? Does it not say “Forbid him not: for he that is not against us is for us” (Luke 9.50)? This, surely, is the path that followers of both our two great religions must walk.
“Unfortunately, those who wish us all to walk apart have recently found another focus for their efforts: the tragic clashes between nomadic herdsmen and settled farmers in the central regions of Nigeria.
“For generations, herders have driven their cattle from the north to the centre of our country; they tend to be predominantly Muslim, although not exclusively. The farmers, in certain areas of central Nigeria, are predominantly Christian.
“The causes of this conflict are not religious or theological, but temporal. At the heart of this discord is access to rural land, exacerbated both by climate change and population growth.
“Sadly, there are some who seek to play fast and loose and so make others believe that these are not the facts. When religion is claimed as the cause — and by those who know that it is not — it only makes finding a resolution more difficult.
“The government has taken action to mediate, to bring the two groups together in peace and unity. But we also need all parties to follow the teachings of the scriptures, and encourage reconciliation rather than cause division. As it is said: “Having eyes do you not see, and having ears do you not hear?” (Mark 8.18).
“As our constitution codifies, politicising religion has no place in Nigeria; for it makes us turn away from one another; it makes us retreat into our communities and walk different paths.
“I believe that there is a better way. To those who seek to divide, I still hold my hand out in brotherhood and forgiveness. I ask only that they stop, and instead encourage us to turn towards one another in love and compassion. Nigeria belongs to all of us. This is what I believe.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment