Share this on WhatsApp



A Benin-based human rights activist and anti-corruption crusader in Edo State, Bishop Osadolor Ochei, initiated a legal suit against the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) at a Federal High Court in Abuja over its unwillingness to investigate allegation of corruption against former Governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole.
Ochei, in the suit, contended that the EFCC ignored a detailed petition he submitted at the Commission on October 28, 2016, containing allegations of economic and financial crimes against Oshiomhole.
National Daily gathered that in a motion ex-parte, Ochei is asking the court to, as a matter of urgency, compel the EFCC to commence the investigation and prosecution of the former governor; pursuant to sections 6 (b) & (h) and 13 (2) of the EFCC Act, 2004.
 The activist protested that he has made several complaints to the EFCC on the allegations of corrupt practices against Oshiomhole, but there was no response or commitment from the EFCC to investigate the allegations. He decried that EFCC failed to examine and investigate the allegations contained in the petition to the Commission.
The motion ex-parte filed by the applicant’s counsel, West Idahosa and Co., indicated Oshiomhole’s legitimate means of income as governor, making Ochei argue that EFCC owes Nigeria and Edo State a duty to unearth the truth by meticulously investigating the allegations to ascertain the extent of complicity and culpability of the second respondent on the allegations contained in the petition.
It was indicated that the allegations against Oshiomhole in the petition include: “That the Applicant repeated the allegation that the second respondent built a sprawling mansion worth over N10 billion in his home town, Iyanho, Edo State. The said building was constructed by Verissimo, a South African architectural outfit.
Ochei highlighted that features in the questionable house owned by the second respondent include: swimming pools, water fountains, multiple theatres for cinema and live performances, huge event halls, bridges, manmade lake, lodges of different sizes, among others. He contended that the cost of the mansion is well outside the legitimate income of the former Governor of Edo State. He argued further that the second respondent’s lifestyle and extent of the property were not justified by his legitimate sources of income. The applicant’s petition is attached as Exhibit “B”, while the reminder from the applicant is attached as Exhibit ‘B1.’
“That the 2nd respondent bought a property along Okoro-Otun Avenue, G.R.A., Benin City owned by Edo State Government while serving as Governor of Edo State in an insider deal without due process and in abuse of his oath of office.
The Okoro-otun property acquired by the 2nd respondent was originally given to University of Benin as a gift by Edo State Government. The 2nd respondent, while a dispute was pending in court between University of Benin and Edo State Government, forcibly acquired the property for his personal use…”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment