Share this on WhatsApp












Former Governor of Ondo State, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, has ended his sojourn in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and planning a return to the Labour Party he abandoned years ago. Though, the former Ondo Governor is, however, yet to clearly indicate where the next destination will be.

Accordingly, Mimiko has sent a letter to the PDP  leadership in Ondo State, notifying them of his intentions to depart from the party.

In a letter  to the State PDP leadership in Ondo on Wednesday, Mimiko disclosed his intention to dump the party, explaining that the decision is personal to him. Accordingly, Mimiko resigned his membership of the PDP on Wednesday, June 13, 2018.

The letter read in part, ” I hereby with utmost humility inform you of my decision to resign my membership of the PDP with effect from today, June 13, 2018, for some well-thought-out personal reasons.



” It was an honour working with the many prominent Nigerians with whom I shared the PDP platform for the entire period I was in there as a member.

“Accept, please the assurance of my very high regards.”

Meanwhile, PDP State Chairman in Ondo, Mr. Clement Faboyede, remarked that Mimiko’s exit from the party would not have affect the party’s political fortune in the state, maintaining that the party was waxing stronger on a daily basis.

The State Chairman stated that Mimiko is just one man out of many notable stakeholders in the party; declaring that PDP will not die as the former governor leaves.

“Mimiko is a human being,  he has the right to his opinion, we have tried at all levels to discourage him but he insisted on leaving. One thing I know is that PDP will not die as he (Mimiko) leaves.  We have survived many turbulent times in the past. So, if he goes it cannot affect us negatively,” Faboyede declared.

While Mimiko still keeps his next destination hanging, National Daily gathered   that he plans to return to Labour Party he abandoned in 2014. The former governor was expected to join LP this Thursday  in his hometown, Ondo. Mimiko’s aides and others party loyalists were said to resist defecting with him. they were said to prefer  to remained in the PDP.

Mimiko rejoined the PDP in 2014 from the Labour Party which he also joined after dumping PDP. He  later became the Chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum. he has been relegated to the background since he led the PDP to an election the party suffered defeat in the hands of APC; compelling him to opt for defection about one year after leaving office in 2017.



































Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment