Share this on WhatsApp



he National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for signing the ‘Not Too Young To Run’ Bill into law.
The students’ body made the commendation in a statement signed by ‎Taiwo Bamigbade, NANS Senate President on Friday in Abuja.‎
Mr Buhari signed the Bill on Thursday in Abuja.‎
The students said the action had rekindled the hopes of millions of Nigerian youth who until now had been dispirited from participating in the nation’s governments.
They said that signing the bill into law was a call to nation building and ‎ practical ways the president demonstrated that Nigerian youth could no longer remain spectators.
‎“The signing of the bill into law by President Muhammadu Buhari was a wake-up call to the youth from slumber.
“We have complained enough and it is now time to move into action. The era of Nigerian youth shying away from politics is gone.
“The action is indeed a welcome development and a new dawn for the youths of this great nation; our time of inactivity is gone.
“The action of Mr President is a welcome development which cannot be over-emphasised, therefore, the youth have been untied from political bondage. We are grateful to Mr President.’’
The student umbrella body also commended the president for his unrelenting efforts to rid the nation of corruption, saying it was gradually yielding results in spite of the challenges and rigorous processes of the legal justice system.


 

The student body, however, frowned at selective actions in the fight, adding that “corruption gives greater blows to the youth’’.
The association also decried the fact that Leah Sharibu, the un-released Dapchi school girl reportedly held by Boko Haram was still in captivity and called on the federal government to hasten her release from captivity.
It said NANS as a students’ umbrella body would continue to fight for the interest and welfare of all Nigerian students and youth, especially against injustices and intimidation of any kind.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment