Share this on WhatsApp



By Esther Egbe
Ex international and former captain of Super Eagles ,Segun Odegbami  (Head master) told our reporter that there are eight hours to the start of the ‘Third World War’.
“I am alone in my room in Park Inn Hotel, St. Petersburg, the city where the ‘war’ with Argentina will take place this evening. I am praying.  I cant see the Super eagles again because i think they deserve to be on their own, focussed on the work they have to do tonight.
“For me, this may be the most challenging match in our entire history because Nigerian’s expect (and justifiably too) that their beloved Super Eagles, their most visible and potent global ambassadors, will do the seemingly ‘impossible’.
Segun added that they are expected  to defy all odds, break a jinx of  4 previous consecutive defeats at the World Cup, neutralise the greatest player in the history of football for 90 minutes, silence the 30,000 die-hard supporters following the Argentine team, plus an additional, overwhelmingly anti-black audience that dominate a Cup that is surely not designed so that a Black African team will win, and defeat a pre-championship favourite, Argentina, tonight.
Odegbami stated that is the mountain the team of young, hardworking and patriotic Super Eagles is expected  to climb and conquer successfully today. The odds are stacked against the Eagles. It is mostly Nigerians that believe that their team will win tonight.
During a chat with National Daily he explained that the big advantage thè Nigerian  players have – unlike the Argentines is there is no pressure-cooker tension in their camp.
“Unlike the argentines there will be no global humiliation even in defeat. When I left the team yesterday my spirit was lifted by their attitude and composure, a steeliness in their eyes reflecting determination and confidence, and an uncommon calmness of a singlemindedness to put up the fight of their lives, and to do-or-die in the process.
“I challenged Mikel Obi, captain of the Nigerian ‘army’ tonight, to use this match to make a statement to all Nigerians, reminding  us all about who we are in the world, where we are coming from and our responsibility to all black persons on earth. That even When the odds are stacked against us,  when we come together  in a team, driven by the natural Nigerian spirit in our DNA, when we direct our energies positively, we can conquer the world. Unfortunately for the Argentines they are our cannon fodder tonight.
Accordig to him,  the Argentines have never had a Black player in their national team.
“Well, that speaks louder than words why that is so.  Indeed, that’s why to me today’s match is Nigeria’s  World Cup final.  We must beat Argentina. After  that I can go home.
He concluded it will not matter too much again  what happens there afte,these Eagles would have stamped their names and place forever in the annals of the World Cup.
“These ‘ordinary’ Nigerians with an extra-ordinary motivation to demonstrate Nigeria’s capacity to be great in the world, even beyond football, would become, at a time such as this in our political history, the model of genuine heroes the country needs to lead Nigeria out of the present Golgotha.
“The road to becoming the greatest  Black country in the world can start tonight with the Super Eagles. Mark my words. Let us pray foŕ them,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment