Share this on WhatsApp



Following the relentless efforts of Sunshine Stars FC’s management and other stakeholders, the Club has secured its new players’ licenses after resolving the issues and bureaucracies holding it back with the League Management Company (LMC).
With the devlopment, the players who were mostly signed during the mid season transfer window to strengthen the Club and boost the fight against relegation are now eligible for selection from Sunday’s rescheduled match day 23 match with Nasarawa United FC in Akure.
Reacting to the development, Sunshine Stars FC’s president, Otunba Tajudeen Akinyemi lauded the cooperation and efforts of all stakeholders in achieving the breakthrough saying:
“I thank everyone particularly our state government, through the ministry of sports and also the LMC for their support and cooperation.
“Ordinarily we would have loved to be treated more fairly like every other Club over the issue of indebtedness, but we are happy this is behind us now and we can face our survival battle head on with renewed energy and focus,” he said.
The new players include defenders, Kunle Odunlami who rejoined the Akure Landlords after a spell with El Merrick of Sudan, and ex Ikorodu United FC’s imposing man, Tope Akande.
Midfielders are former FC Ifeanyiubah’s duo, Michael Egbeta who have been signed on since the beginning of the season and Gabriel Sola. While Striker, Ajibola Otegbeye, Sunshine Stars’ top scorer from last season returned from a short stint with Akwa United FC.
Ghanaian, Godbless Asamoah, formerly of Rivers United FC and West Omodu who last played for Kudahenveiru United in the Maldives also joined the Orange and Blue strike force.
The new players signed on an initial deal through till the end of the 2017/18 football season in Nigeria.
Meanwhile defenders, Shittu Lawal and  Bayo Adigun have since terminated their contracts with Sunshine Stars mutually, while Omotayo Adebogun ended his season-loog loan deal from Remo Stars FC halfway.
.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment