Share this on WhatsApp



The FCT command of the Nigeria police have arrested a website designer, Paul Ezeugo, who allegedly killed his lover he met on Facebook.
Ezeugo,27, dated Charity Chidiebere Aiyedogbon for one year before he and his friend, Emmanuel Adogah, 28, murdered her on May 9, 2016, and stole her Acura ZDX Sports Utility Vehicle.
The victim’s body was found in two pieces packaged in cartons and stacked beside a river in Ushafa, Bwari, Abuja.
The suspects were caught after a two-year manhunt.
Parading the two men alongside other suspects in Abuja on Thursday, the FCT Commissioner of Police, Sadiq Bello, said Ezeugo confessed to killing the woman, who he said was his girlfriend.
According to him, the main suspect also confessed that he first got his lover drunk with alcohol before moving her from Yaoundé Street, Wuse, to Kagini, in Kubwa where she was chopped into pieces.
“On June 1, 2018, police operatives attached to the Command Anti-Kidnapping Squad succeeded in arresting the principal suspect, one Paul Chukwujekwu Ezeugo, 27 years at Benin in Edo State.
“Upon his arrest, the principal suspect who has been at large since the lady’s disappearance, confessed during interrogation that the mother of four was his girlfriend and that he conspired with one Emmanuel Adogah and murdered her on May 9, 2016 at about 2330hrs at Kagini.
“According to Paul Chukwujekwu Ezeugo, he gave her excess alcohol to consume before he moved her from Yaoundé Street to Kagini area where she was butchered and her mutilated body packaged in two sacks that were later dumped by the river bank at Ushafa, in Bwari Area Council.
“He further confessed that he killed her because he wanted to take possession of her Acura ZDX SUV and other properties. The deceased’s car and some of her properties have been recovered from him.”
The CP added that Adogah is a habitual criminal.
“Paul is my friend and so when he asked me to meet him in his house and as a friend, I went there, I never knew his intention, I never knew what he was up to. I assisted in carrying the body that was all. My only role was to help in carrying the woman, she was almost half dead when I met them,” he explained.
Ezeugo blamed the devil and greed for his decision.
“I was hoping to get her car. I dated her for one year but she didn’t give me anything, she told me she was a divorcee when we met.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment