Share this on WhatsApp

 
President Muhammadu Buhari has started wooing the South-east with lucrative oil contracts ahead of the 2019 presidential election, National Daily has gathered.

According to findings by National Daily, key businessmen of Ibo extraction has been identified by the Muhammadu Buhari re-election campaign team, and has been settled with oil lift contracts running into billions for the 2018/2019 round.

One of such key figures, it was gathered is Uche Ogah, an astute politician and businessman who is also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Masters Energy, whose company has been awarded oil lift contract worth billions of naira.

It would be recalled that Ogah who used to be in the Peoples’ Democratic Party almost edged out the incumbent governor of Abia State, Okezie Ikpeazu in a litigation decided in favour of Ikpeazu by the Supreme Court of Nigeria.
He has since decamped to the All Progressives Congress (APC) from the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) over what he termed “lack of internal democracy” in PDP.

National Daily gathered that as the 2019 general elections draw near, President Buhari and his trusted oil sector guides (Abba Kyari – chief of staff), Mamman Daura (cousin) and Maikanti Kacalla Baru (NNPC GMD) have chosen to align with Ogah and his ilk whom are believed to be favorably disposed to the re-election of the President.

National Daily gathered that unlike other politicians from the zone who have held several political positions which made them to lose value in the estimation of the Igbo sons and daughters because of their past failed promises, Dr Uche Ogah has never held any political position in Nigeria but has the most formidable political structure in the region which made him to enjoy ‘Buhari-like’ followership in the southeast region without any financial inducement.

And since winning the election is topmost in the minds of these dudes and knowing full well that the President will not be able to win another term without the south, the nation’s cash cow, NNPC crude, is being deployed to ease the process.

Levene Energy is also on the list to pick up a second consecutive year of crude. This company is reportedly controlled by friends of aviation minister of state, Sirika Hadi (Katsina).

The same goes for Setana, headed by Edward Edozien, the cousin of the permanent secretary to the ministry of energy, Luis Edozien.

Similarly, top businessmen from the president’s constituency have also been rewarded. Those on the list include AA Rano (Auwalu Abdullahi Rano) and AMG Petroenergy (Risqua Murtala Muhammed), as well as MRS (Alhaji Sayyu Idris Dantata, Aliko Dangote’s half-brother) Prudent Energy owned by businessman Abdulwasiu Sowami (Borno) would also see its second quote of crude, as would Mahmud Tukur (Adamawa), of Eterna Oil & gas and son of the former PDP party leader, Bamanga Tukur.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment