Share this on WhatsApp








The campaign train of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar rails to Delta State on Wednesday, June 26 June, 2018, in continuation of his consultations and mobilization of support for the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and top government officials in the state, as well as PDP leader were scheduled to receive the Waziri Adamawa at the Asaba International Airport, amidst legion of PDP stakeholders and supporters.
National Daily gathered that the Executive Assistant to the Governor on Communications, Barrister Fred Oghenesivbe, in a statement indicated that Atiku has demonstrated considerable determination and commitment in his contest to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari as the President of Nigeria in 2019.
The governor’s media aide revealed that Governor Okowa, the Deputy Governor, Barrister Kingsley Otuaro, Speaker of Delta State House of Assembly, Right Honourable Sheriff Oborevwori, PDP State Chairman, Okakuro Kingsley Esiso, State Executive members, Party Chieftains and major stakeholders in Delta politics will participate at the Exco chambers of Government House, Asaba; to give Atiku and his entourage a befitting red carpet reception.
The statement read in part: “Gov Okowa and Atiku are long standing friends and shall maximize the visit to dwell on core political issues; some of which may be closely connected to 2019 general elections.
“It is an open secret that Gov Okowa has been playing major roles in the rebranding of PDP as can be seen from his core activities and service to the party at both state and national levels.
“Delta State has in recent time become the political Mecca of Nigeria; a trend largely attributed to the critical and enviable roles Gov Okowa has been playing to strengthen democratic structures within the party, particularly the free and fair conduct of the party’s non-elective and elective national conventions as well as the transparent gubernatorial primaries in Ekiti State, all of which were chaired by the Smart Governor.
“It is hoped that Atiku’s visit will afford the two political gladiators and.other major stakeholders of PDP in Delta State, to cross fertilize political ideas; reason out mass mobilisation and electioneering permutations in the interest of the party and Nigerians who are yearning daily for the eviction  of President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC from Aso Rock Villa, come 2019.”
Atiku has taken his consultations across the country to several other states which include Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Rivers, Ekiti, etc. he has scheduled to consult PDP stakeholders in the 36 states of the federation before making formal declaration of his presidential ambition expected to be done towards the end of July 2018.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment