Share this on WhatsApp



rohrSuper Eagles still hold the faith of their progression to the knockout stages of the Russia 2018 World Cup in their own hands but so does their final group D opponent who are yet to win in Russia.
Speaking ahead of the team’s departure to Saint Petersburg, venue of the all important final group stage game, birthday celebrant, Coach Gernot Rohr has called on his charges to be ruthless in front of goal to ensure that the beautiful second half display against Iceland does not go in vain.
Coach Rohr said, “Simply put, we must take even half chances and be on the offensive as much as possible.”
On the result needed to see his team progress, he said, “Perhaps a draw could be good enough to qualify, but we cannot think in that manner or even play for a draw. Sometimes, when you play for a draw, you get punched in the face late in the day.”
The Franco-German Coach who has managed to secure a win or draw in thirteen of his eighteen matches in charge of the Super Eagles concluded by stating he is expecting a tough game from the wounded lions but backed his players to show the required tough mentality needed from the start to end of the game against the Albicelestes
– role to the NFF and the National Teams. Our President has created a much –conducive environment for football to thrive.
 
“I also want to specially appreciate the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo; the Senate President, Distinguished Senator Bukola Saraki and Members of the Presidential delegation led by the Honourable Minister of Sports, Barrister Solomon Dalung and including the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mr. Olusade Adesola and our IOC Member, Engineer Habu Gumel.”
 
The NFF supremo also expressed appreciation to Senators and Members of the House of Representatives who are in Russia supporting the team, as well as major stakeholders, including former NFF Presidents and General Secretaries, Nigeria legends including Chief Olusegun Odegbami who gave a stirring pep –talk to the team before the match, former Super Eagles’ coach Chief Adegboye Onigbinde and other prominent Nigerians who watched the game in Volgograd.
 
“I appreciate the hard work and passion of my colleagues on the NFF Board over the years, the commitment and loyalty of Members of the NFF Congress, the dedication of NFF Management and Staff, and other stakeholders include club owners and our army of media representatives who are here in Russia. I want to assure everyone that Friday’s win over Iceland only signalled the beginning of great tidings in Russia.”
 
Ahmed Musa scored twice and rocked the crossbar in a telling second period for Nigeria, as the Eagles leapfrogged Argentina and Iceland to second place in Group D.
 
“I have always believed this would be a great World Cup campaign for Nigeria. We have the team that can do it and this was proved again on Friday.
 
“It is important that every Nigerian continues to support the team with prayers. This squad is capable of going far in the tournament to make Nigeria and Africa proud.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment