Share this on WhatsApp
By Richards Adeniyi

The Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Hadiza Bala Usman, has implored the private sector to take advantage of the enabling environment created by the Muhammadu Buhari administration and invest in the nation’s Maritime sector.

Usman was speaking in Onne, over the weekend shortly before she commissioned the new acquired MV OSANYAMO, owned by Starzs Investment Limited.

“This morning’s event is another testament to the commitment of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to the improvement of the Nigerian economy, not just by diversification but by providing the enabling environment for the private sector to invest more in the country”, she said.

“In addition to its contribution to the development of the Maritime industry in the country, the introduction of MV OSANYAMO has the capacity for oil exploration and production in Nigeria. Said to be the largest Damen ASD Tug range till date, the ASD Tug 5114 model vessel is purpose built to assist in tanker lifting operations alongside FPSOs in the Gulf of Guinea”, she added.

According to the Managing Director, “at 52.3 meters length, displacing 800 tonnes, a 268sqm deck space, at 5 tonnes load per m, 2 large fuel and water tanks; with transfer capability of 115 tonnes astern and 110 tonnes ahead, two main ABC16 DZC engines delivering 6,700kw powering twin kort nozzle thrusters manufactured by Schottel and additional capabilities like fire-fighting and oil recovery, the MV OSANYAMO is state-of-the-
art tug, being a highly maneuverable vessel, fully equipped, for offshore operation.”

While congratulating Messrs Starzs Investment Limited for the feat and epoch making initiative, the Managing Director reiterated the commitment of the NPA at all investors in the nation’s maritime sector, stressing that “Together, we can work to make the sector the pride of Nigeria and the African continent as a whole.”

Hadiza Bala Usman particularly commended the Starzs Investment Limited for its commitment to the Nigerian Content requirement of the Federal Government to the extent that it can boast of a 100 percent Nigerian crew on its entire fleet of vessels.

The Executive Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, who christened the boat also commended Starzs Investment Limited for the Landmark.

Amongst the personalities that witnessed the historic NPA occasion were the former Managing Director, Chief Adebayo Sarumi, Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Engr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote, Managing Director, Total E&P, Mr. Nicolas Terraz and many other notable personalities.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment