Share this on WhatsApp








The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has bounced back to secessionist Movement after the violent suppression by the Nigerian Army which drove the IPOB leader into exile.
IPOB in its  renewed activities revealed preparations to conduct  referendum towards the ‘peaceful restoration’ of the defunct Republic of Biafra, to enable the Igbo nation decide whether Biafra should be actualized or not.
National Daily gathered that IPOB spokesperson, Emma Powerful, in a statement, declared that IPOB have printed 40 million ballot papers for the first phase of the referendum by Biafrans to determine their resolve to opt out of Nigeria.
He said the ballot papers would be distributed to all adults in every clan and village in ‘Biafraland’ in the first phase of the ‘three-stage referendum’ which would be held in 2018.
The statement read inter alia: “We the Indigenous People of Biafra wish to bring to the attention of the world that plans are at advanced stages in preparation for the first in our three-stage referendum process towards the peaceful, non-violent restoration of the nation of Biafra.
“Our decision to hold the first of the three plebiscites later this year has vindicated IPOB’s resilience in sticking to the principle of non-violent agitation for Biafra in the face of government brutality and treachery from enemies within.
“Efforts geared towards this first referendum is gathering unstoppable momentum with dates for the exercise to be announced imminently.
“Forty million ballot papers are being printed and readied for distribution to every clan and village in Biafraland for all adults over the age of 18 to express their preference.”
National Daily also gathered that IPOB further cited instances where the Nigerian government had, in the past conducted a referendum for some sections of the country.
IPOB recalled: “On 11th February, 1961, Nigeria conducted a referendum for the people of Southern Cameroon to determine whether they wished to be part of Nigeria or merge with Francophone northern Cameroon.
“This referendum resulted in the peaceful secession of the then NCNC-controlled Anglophone Cameroon from Nigeria.
“In other words, they voted to leave Nigeria for good. That was democracy in action, not war.
“Again, on the 13th of July, 1963, Nigeria conducted another referendum which led to the creation of the defunct Mid-West Region from the supposedly Yoruba-dominated Western Region.
“The old Mid-Western Region comprised parts of today’s Delta and Edo states, “Referendum has been used in Nigeria before to resolve a seemingly intractable issue.”















Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment