Share this on WhatsApp




By: Alex Olise
In line with the Nigerian military disengagement policy after a meritorious service to the nation, a total of 320 non-commissioned personnel were finally retired from the three services.
Their retirement was sequel to a six-month pre-retirement intensive training at the Armed Forces Resettlement Centre (NAFRC), Oshodi.
The soldiers, comprising 262 from the Nigerian Army, 44 from the Nigerian Navy and 14 from the Nigerian Air Force were disengaged after a colourful passing-out ceremony held at the Centre on Friday.
In his brief remarks, the Guest of Honour, the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin, enjoined the retirees to continue to contribute their quota towards surmounting threats to lives and property within their domiciled area.
“You will have to prove in your relationships that you have passed through a highly disciplined system such as the military.
“I believe you are all capable of succeeding and positively influencing whatever environment you find yourselves after now,” he said.
The CDS said he had no doubt that the training they have passed through at the Centre would expose them to several entrepreneurial and management skills that would help mitigate the envisaged pitfalls as well as living a stress-free life in retirement.
“Let me use this opportunity to intimate you that the Defence Headquarters recently organised a workshop with the aim of harmonising all armed forces veterans associations.
“Thus a Veteran Association of Nigeria has been proposed and modalities for it’s establishment are ongoing.
“Also, a change in name and mandate of NAFRC is being considered to better reflect the current role of the Centre in capacity development of our retiring officers, soldiers, ratings and airmen, Olonisakin reiterated.
The CDS also said that the Defence Headquarters was making efforts towards reviewing the mandate of the Centre, noting that the needs of the mordern day retirement go beyond mere vocational training.
Earlier, the NAFRC Commandant, Air Vice Marshall Austin Jekenu, in his welcome address, urged the retired personnel to make good use of the skills acquired.
He also urged the retired personnel to be obedient to constituted authority while contributing to the progress of their various communities.
Jekenu urged them to positively contribute to boost national economy in whatever business they engaged in.
“The Centre graduates 2 courses annually and it is on record that we have trained over 41, 000 ex-servicemen of the Nigerian Armed Forces since its inception.
“We have enjoyed tremendous support from the National Assembly, Ministry of Defence,  CDS and Service Chiefs,” he said.
During the training, four of the personnel died while about 150 were returned to their various services due to health conditions.
Giving awards to deserving personnel for their outstanding performances and certificates to all the graduands, the best graduating participant went to Navy Warrant Officer, Gambo Usman Wushishi, winning the Chief of Army Staff and RANNAO awards.
Also present at the ceremony were the representatives of the service chiefs and top military officers, both serving and retired, as well as families of the retirees.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment