Share this on WhatsApp
The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) says the epileptic power supply which started over 24 hours ago in parts of the country is due to a gas pipeline rupture.


In a statement on Sunday, Ndidi Mbah, TCN spokesperson, said the sharp drop in power generation by 1,087MW as a result of gas pipeline rupture on Friday and technical issues at the Shell gas wells on Saturday led to the collapse of the power grid.

Mbah said six thermal power generating stations are currently unable to generate electricity and have been shut down.

She said this has resulted in load-shedding nationwide to avert a collapse of the system. She said the load-shedding is to ensure that available generation is commensurate with what is allocated to DisCos nationwide, to create a balance and avert grid instability.

The statement read in part: “Due to the NGC pipeline incident, six (6) thermal power generating stations are currently unable to generate electricity and have therefore been shut down. The affected power stations include the Ihovbor, Azura, Omotosho gas, Geregu gas, Olorunsogo gas, Sapele and the Egbin Power Station which has managed to generate 60MW only on each of its units, losing a total of 211MW.
 
“Also, Afam VI power station was shut down so that Shell Oil Company can resolve its gas well issues to enable it commence gas supply to Afam VI power station.
 
“With a total loss of 1,087.6MW into the grid, the transmission system has become quite fragile and that TCN is working hard to avert a collapse of the system by engaging in load-shedding.
 
“NGC is making efforts to ensure that the gas pipeline issues are resolved in order to restore normal gas supply to the affected power generating stations, to enable them generate into the grid. Meanwhile, Shell has resolved its gas well issue this morning and gas supply partially restored to Afam VI.
 
“The company appeals for understanding and assures that its engineers are working hard to continue to maintain the stability of the grid, pending completion of repairs of the gas pipeline by NGC and restoration of full gas supply to the affected generating stations.”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment