Share this on WhatsApp



The National Assembly, in a Joint Session of the Senate and House of Representatives, on Tuesday, passed vote of no confidence on the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris.
The Federal lawmakers made some resolutions to sustain democracy in Nigeria.
The President of the Senate and Chairman of the National Assembly, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, read the resolutions of the lawmakers after a closed-door session which lasted about three hours.
Saraki declared: “The joint session of the National Assembly in closed session resolved that the security agencies must be given a marching order to curtail the killings of Nigerians across the country and protect the lives and properties of Nigerians. This is the primary responsibility of any responsible government.
 “Two, the systematic harassment and humiliation by the Executive of perceived political opponents, people with contrary opinions, including Legislators and Judiciary by the Police and other security agencies must stop.
 “Three, There must be strict adherence to the Rule of Law and protection for all citizens by the President and his appointees.
“Four, the President must be held accountable for the actions of his appointees and must be ready to sanction those that carry out any act which will ridicule or endanger our country and democracy.
 “Five, the Government should show sincerity in the fight against corruption by not being selective, also prosecute current appointees that have cases pending against them.”
“Six, the sanctity of the National Assembly should protect and preserve the Federal Government of Nigeria by not interfering in its business and prosecuting those who invaded the Senate to seize the mace.
 “Seven, (a) The National Assembly should liaise with International Communities through the IPU, APU, ECOWAS, CPA, Parliament, Pan African Parliament, EU, UN, US congress and UK Parliament to secure our democracy.
 (b) “Democratic elections must be competitive and inclusive by removing the present reign of fear and intimidation particularly as we approach the forthcoming 2019 elections”.
 “Eight, the National Assembly will work closely with Civil Society Organisations, Trade Unions and NGOs to further deepen and protect our democracy”
 “Nine, he President must take immediate steps to contain the growing level of unemployment and poverty in Nigeria especially now that we have advantage of the oil price having risen to $80 per barrel”.
“Ten, both chambers of the National Assembly, hereby, pass a vote of confidence on the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the entire leadership of the National Assembly.”
 “Eleven, we reaffirm our earlier resolution of vote of no confidence on the Inspector General of Police who does nothing other than preside over the killing of innocent Nigerian and consistent framing up of perceived political opponents of the President and outright disregard for constitutional authority, both executive and legislative.
 “Finally, the National Assembly will not hesitate to evoke its Constitutional powers if nothing is done to address the above resolutions passed today”.
National Daily recalls that IGP Idris on three consecutive occasions declined to honour the Senate invitation to give explanation on security situation in the country.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment