Share this on WhatsApp



It’s a mournful Sunday for Africa, Nigeria and the world of music lovers. The news about the death of Ras Kimono (real name Ukeleke Onwubuya ) has brought memories and sadness to reggae enthusiasts and fans of the Musician.
Report says, he fell ill on Saturday but gave up the ghost at Lagoon Hospital in Ikoyi.  The news filtered the social platform airwaves on Sunday morning as fans expressed how deeply he would be missed:
@obitalks, Horrible news about #RasKimono May his soul RIP
@Emeka_Official, Arumba styleh styleh!!!  R.I.P. LEGEND thanks for all the good memories RASKIMONO…
@Funmi Iyanda, Rest gentle big man with the quick laugh. Thank you for the music.
@Phatill, Nobody lives forever but may our time be right. Sleep well Raskimono.
@Lolo_cy, Wow…  Such a tragedy…  I remember interviewing Raskimono … He was so full of life..  Opposed the Injustice by our leaders at every chance he had..
@theNETng, In 1989, #RasKimono released the track ‘Gimme Likkle Sugar’. The song talks about poor government leadership, police brutality and mass unemployment- things Nigerians still complain of 29 years later
@Okusagaro, What a painful exist. Years after his great Hit songs we still feel strongly under the pressure he sang about. #RIP #RasKimono
@Uncommon_JJ, Another Legend gone too soon, you will always remain one of my favorite all time Reggae Artist
@JunglebyBantu,“Dem no like me, me no like them, dem ma enemies, and me no dem friend” Rest well Ras Kimono, thank you for beautiful music.
@007_codename, “My Childhood gradually wiping off. RIP Raskimono!”
Ras Kimono (9 May 1958 – 10 June 2018) was a Nigerian reggae artist whose debut album Under Pressure, led by the single “Rum-Bar Stylée”, was a big hit in the Nigerian music scene in 1989. Before he released his solo album, he was in a group called The Jastix along with Amos McRoy and Majek Fashek.
Born Ekeleke Elumelu, in Delta State, Nigeria, he started out his career, firstly as a student of Gbenoba Secondary School Agbor and later as a member of the Jastix Reggae Ital, alongside Majek Fashek, Amos McRoy Jegg and Black Rice Osagie. His music was greatly influenced by the poverty, inequality and hardship he witnessed in his early life. He released his solo debut album Under Pressure on the Premier Music label in 1989, which propelled him to instant continental stardom. The album had hits such as “Under Pressure”, “Natty Get Jail” and the massive hit “Rhumba Style”. He later released a string of hit albums, touring all over Africa, Europe and the United States, promoting his brand of reggae music. He won several awards including the Nigeria Music Awards, Fame Music Awards and many more. In 2010, he was still performing to a loyal fan-base of all ages and his music is still played on radio, throughout West Africa. Kimono served a long apprenticeship on the Nigerian music circuit, experimenting with a number of styles, before making his late 1980s breakthrough as a reggae singer. Together with his Massive Dread Reggae Band. Kimono released his debut album, Under Pressure in 1989, accompanied by the popular single, “Rum-Bar Stylee”, this revealed both a Jamaican and native African influence (the latter particularly evident in his ‘Patois’ delivery, as frequently employed by Fela Kuti to communicate with the urban underclass). His strongly polemical lyrics produced album sales of over 100,000 copies, and a fervent following for his advocacy of social change. What’s Gwan proved even more successful, with the topics selected including legalisation of marijuana, and the need for Africans to intellectually repel colonialism and its arbitrary boundaries between tribes. Most controversially, he was not averse to naming directly those in power he saw as synonymous with backdoor imperialism. He died, at the age of 60, on 10 June 2018 in Lagos, Nigeria.
Discography
Under Pressure (1989)
We No Wan (1989)
What’s Gwan (1990)
Rub A Dub (1990)
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment