Share this on WhatsApp












The results of the ward, local and state congresses in Imo State showed that Governor Rochas Okorocha, Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Governors Forum, has been evicted from the ruling party. Okorocha has since then been uncomfortable with his political career and attempted to seek solace in developing new romance with the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). However, APGA turned down all his simulations to return to the party, saying that the Imo Governor cannot be trusted.
The eviction puts an end to Okorocha’s plan to install his son-in-law as his successor in 2019.
Okorocha had consulted President Muhammadu Buhari and APC National Chairman, Chief john Odigie-Oyegun, for rescue but failed. The governor subsequently, proceeded to appoint his own members of the State executive of the ruling party in Imo but the national leadership of the party did not recognize them, and they were not included in the inauguration of state executive which took place in Abuja of Monday.
Meanwhile, Osita Okechukwu, Director-General, Voice of Nigeria (VON), an APC stalwart in Imo,  at the APC national secretariat in Abuja on Monday,  told  Okorocha to leave the APC if he so desires; insisting that the APC would win the 2019 elections without Okorocha.
Osita Okechukwu had declared:  “At least there are more than 60 political parties now, Okorocha is free to join any one of his choice, though, we are not forcing him to leave.
“What we are saying is that we have taken the leadership out of his hands because he is playing God; so, what I am saying is that he is at liberty to leave APC.
“But let nobody anywhere thinks that the APC will lose because we have retrieved the party from him, Mr. President is going to get more votes, we are going to win more parliamentary seats, more governorship seats without him.”
“Rochas Okorocha is the governor of Imo, I think there is joy in heaven when ones’ lost sheep is found.
“We will be most joyous to see our governor Rochas Owelle Okorocha come back to the fold and work with us as a family to ensure the success of APC in 2019.
“That is not taking away the fact that he has the right to make political decisions that suits him, but in terms of what we want we wish that we work with him.
“I will not want it to degenerate to that extent, not necessarily in the interest of the party but in his own interest and I think he is a smart governor and won’t want to contemplate leaving APC.”
Okorocha had accused Okechukwu and Senator Hope Uzodimma of hijacking Imo APC. Both party leaders defeated Okorocha devastatingly in all the congresses in Imo State.

































Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment