Share this on WhatsApp
A former commissioner of police, Lagos state, Alhaji Abubakar Tsav, says ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo’s recent outburst that his life is under treat, was an indication that he was afraid of nemesis.

Speaking at the weekend in Makurdi, the Benue state capital, Tsav said Obasanjo was simply being afraid of his shadows because of the atrocities committed during his eight years rule.

He said Obasanjo had ruled this country and committed a lot of atrocities, some of which border on criminality. “For instance many high profile murder of notable politicians occurred during his tenure and nothing was done to unravel such cases.

For example the Bola Ige murder case,” Tsav said. Ige was Obasanjo’s minister of justice and attorney general who was assassinated in his home. “There was also high profile corruption cases like the $16 billion power contracts and Halliburton bribe scandal.

“OBJ is afraid that he might be required to explain his role in any of these. He is just pre-empting President Mohammadu Buhari here. “If he believes that he is innocent, why is he crying out? He has stained his fingers and should subject himself for Police interrogation,” Tsav said.

The immediate past federal commissioner, public complaint commission (PCC), further commended President Buhari for ordering the IGP to re-open the investigation of the late Minister of Justice Bola Ige in 2016 adding that it was a right step in the right direction.

The former police commissioner further disclosed that throughout his 30 years in the criminal investigation department of the police force he discovered that all criminal cases that government were interested in the culprits were never arrested non justice served.

“The murder of Chief Bola Ige, the nation’s Attorney General and Minister of Justice is one of such cases. Or how else can one explain the clinical and gruesome murder of a whole Minister of Justice of the Federation and yet no one will be arrested and brought to justice? This is too glaring.”

Tsav also urged the IGP Ibrahim Idris to use his best and incorruptible detectives to expose the murderers of Bola Ige and many Nigerians who were callously murdered by these nests of murderers masquerading as leaders.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment