Share this on WhatsApp

Vows to terminate political godfathers




President Muhammadu Buhari has been talking tough on the battle for 2019, declaring open war on political godfathers in Nigeria or those who feel they own the country.
President  Buhari, seeking re-election for second term on the platform  of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has declared  his readiness  to deal with the powerful people who are considered to see themselves  as “Owners of Nigeria”.
Meanwhile, President Buhari departed Nigeria on Sunday for Morocco on a two days working visit.

National Daily had observed that President Buhari is consolidating his political arsenal for the 2019 battle with the former heads of state and retired Generals  in the Army who include Dr. General Olusegun Obasanjo, Ibrahim Babangida, Theophilus Danjuma, Abdusalami Abubakar and Aliyu Gusau, and other political actors who are vehemently opposed to his second term ambition.
APC Media Supported Group, at the week end published varieties of Buhari’s statements signifying declaration of war on his opponents.
The declarations are presented below:
“I can’t be championing ANTI CORRUPTION war and still be lobbying them (NASS) to pass the budget I presented to them about six months ago. Lobbying them with what? I can’t be championing ANTI CORRUPTION war and still be lobbying them (Judiciary) to respect the Administration of Criminal Justice Act…
“We must put pressure on the right quarters. Although, we must allow every arm to exercise its due diligence…”
“I’m up and against the supposed owners of this nation who want this nation to continue to be the plantation of their political bracket, they have far reaching powers, influence and control than you can ever imagine. There’s nothing that they cannot do when they reach a decision and the best part is the fact that you will see their smiling faces but unknown to you that their hands are at work against the wellbeing of the nation.
“You may think that I am the devil but the devil is right there in your midst and shaking hands with you, they can arm-twist anyone and have their way. We wanted to save in the time of abundance but they will not let us, we wanted to repair our refineries for sixteen years but they will not let us, we wanted to enforce beautiful policies to secure this nation’s economy but still they will not let us.
“I’m not interested in amassing wealth, I’ve never been and that is why I don’t own oil wells and foreign accounts etc. This is the very reason that I’m not in collusion with anyone to share or embezzle the wealth of this nation. As a retired Head of State, my pension, savings, farms and other entitlements are sufficient to cater for my family. Remember, I don’t have seven wives and eighty children. My only reason to take up leadership of this nation is to do the most I can, to do the things that others couldn’t sum up the will to do and without same this nation will continue to pour our Honey into a basket and always be left with nothing. I may not be the best, I have my shortfalls but my intentions are always sincere and noble.
“Today, we are saving irrespective of what they say or do, we are making our refineries work and diversifying our economy irrespective of what they say or do, we are enforcing policies that keeps the hands of monkeys out of our general pot irrespective of what they say or do. The job is not perfect neither is it complete but we are definitely on it and we will not give up.
“Nigeria cannot survive with the conscienceless and overbearing influence of these supposed owners of Nigeria, who surreptitiously command every facet of our nation’s socioeconomic and political life.
“Join me in the rescue of this nation or join anyone who you believe without a doubt that same can stop the owners of Nigeria from destroying this nation. Make no mistakes about this, 2019 is between Nigeria and the supposed owners of Nigeria. The choice is yours.”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment