Share this on WhatsApp












The All Progressives Congress (APC) has threatened the use of armed soldiers and Mobile Police in the July 14 governorship election in Eikiti State whether the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) likes it or not. The threat reinforces the earlier declaration by APC governorship candidate in the election, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, that APC will deploy all federal might at its disposal to unseat the PDP in the election.
Speaking at the mega campaign in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, monitored by National Daily from the telecast in Lagos on Tuesday, a former Governor of the state, Niyi Adebayo, had threatened  that “the federal government would deploy both armed soldiers and mobile policemen for the election whether or not the ruling PDP government in the state liked it or not.” The declaration by the APC chieftain showed the degree of desperation of the party to win the Ekiti governorship at costs and by all means. The signal of electoral irregularities is becoming stronger as APC leaders are beginning to reveal their plans for the polls.
However, APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, advised party supporters in the state to prove their loyalty by obtaining their Voter’s cards and consequently voting out the PDP government in the state on July 14.
Vice -President Yemi Osinbajo at a mega campaign rally also remarked that   APC remains the only party capable of liberating the people of Ekiti State from their current challenges.
Osinbajo had encouraged APC supporters in Ekiti to make sure they get their Permanent Voter’s Cards, (PVC’s), to vote Fayemi, describing the former minister as reliable and trustworthy.
“I can assure you all that Fayemi will bring the prosperity that Ekiti is in need of,” he had observed.
APC National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, further stated that the people of Ekiti State have no better choice than to vote-in the ruling party at the centre for them to get liberated from the pangs of poverty.
Oyegun noted that he was shocked by the magnitude of people that trooped out to participate in the mega rally, adding that the large crowd was a clear signal that the Ekiti people were ready to effect change.
National Daily gathered that among the APC leaders at the Tuesday, June 19 mega campaign rally in Ado-Ekiti are Asiwaju Bola Amed Tinubu; APC National Chairman, Chief Segun Oni, Senator Babafemi Ojudu, former Edo State Governor, Adams Oshiomhole; and governors Simon Lalong of Plateau State, Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State, Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State, Rauf Aregbesola of Osun State, Rotimi Akeredolu of o State, Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, Abdulaziz Yari, Zamfara, and Abdulfatai Ahmed of Kwara State, as well as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha; former Minister of State for Works, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, who defected from the PDP after losing the primary election; Chief Bisi Akande, Senator Olorunnimbe Mamora and Bamidele Olumilua.  They all added voices to the mobilization of support for Fayemi, who they described as the best alternative.
At the mega campaign held at the 14,000-capacity Oluyemi Kayode Stadium, APC National Chairman, Oyegun, and Vice President Osibanjo presented the party’s flag to Fayemi and also received Adeyeye into the APC.









Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment