Share this on WhatsApp



The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince  Uche Secondus, has raised alarm over what he described as “unconcealed bias’’ of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in the war against corruption Nigeria.
The PDP National Chairman, Prince Secondus, in a statement by his Media Adviser, Ike Abonyi, in Abuja, decried that the recent arrest and harassment of contractors handling projects in only PDP states had clearly exposed EFCC as doing the bidding of the ruling APC towards the 2019 general elections.
Secondus regretted that EFCC deployed its operatives to intimidate and harass contractors handling projects in some PDP-controlled states with the motive of frustrating the project goals.
“The projects have visibly placed the states far ahead of their colleagues in the ruling APC states,” Secondus remarked.
In the statement accessed by National Daily, the PDP Chairman alerted that EFCC had refused to heed the advisories from well-meaning Nigerians and international watchers, including the recent one from British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Paul Arkwright to be neutral in the performance of its duties. Secondus recalled that the UK had warned EFCC not to take sides with any political party in the 2019 general elections.
Secondus argued that rather than listen to the counsel, EFCC was becoming a willing tool to assist the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the preparations to the 2019 elections.
The PDP Chairman declared: “Rather than encourage states which are seriously involved in the delivery of democracy dividends to their people, the ruling APC has been conniving with relevant agencies to harass contractors ostensibly to frustrate and slow them down.
“Contractors in Taraba and Rivers as well as other PDP states are being harassed by EFCC operatives and are being arm-twisted to implicate PDP leaders.
“Intelligence report is available to the party that the ruling party and the federal government have resolved to ensure that PDP states are permanently put on their toes so as not to get their bearing ahead of 2019.”
Secondus maintained that it would be clear to the world and discerning minds that PDP governors were executing projects that touched the lives of their people.
The PDP Chairman protested: “In some states like Taraba where projects have been halted as a result of EFCC meddlesomeness, the unemployment situation has worsened.”
He reiterated PDP anti-corruption support that corruption should be confronted frontally in the country’s system but with objectivity. The Opposition Party Chairman argued that meaningful result may not be achieved in an atmosphere of bias and double standards.
Secondus encouraged governors of PDP-controlled states to remain undaunted and refuse to be intimidated in the service of their people.
He called on the international community to note the situation where anti-graft agencies were usurping the oversight functions of the states’ Houses of Assembly.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment