Share this on WhatsApp



APC national leader Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, the party’s ex-interim National Chairman of the Bisi Akande and governors on the party’s platform have endorsed Edo former Gov. Adams Oshiomhole, for the party’s national chairmanship.
This decision was made during visits to Oshiomhole’s campaign office located at Aso Drive, Asokoro, Abuja, on Tuesday.
Amongst the governors were Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Rotimi Akeredolu SAN (Ondo), Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), Tanko Al-Makura (Nassarawa) and Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano).
Others were: Yahaya Bello (Kogi) and Simon Lalong (Plateau).
Tinubu said his visit was meant to show solidarity with the former Edo State governor as well as to further strengthen the party to work for Nigeria’s progress.
“There is no doubt. I have worked with him, why should I have any doubt? The stuff of this game (politics) is that you win. Have you seen a democrat who is ready to lose? Just accept it, it is about choice,” said Tinubu while responding toa question about his endorsing Oshiomhole.
“Democracy is a matter of choice; you would want somebody who is competent enough to do it (the job) and you allow him to do it,” Akande also added.
Earlier, the Kebbi State Governor, Atiku Bagudu, told journalists that all the governors on the party’s platform were looking forward to Oshiomhole’s chairmanship.
“I can tell you that Adams Oshiomhole is my candidate as a governor and all the governors I know. He is the candidate for the chairmanship,” said Bagudu, admitong though he is not APC Governors Forum chairman.
Ogun Gov. Ibikunle Amosun, said, “He (Oshiomhole) is one of us. That is why we had to come and identify with him here and you know what that means.
“You know he is running for the office of the chairman of the party, so we have to come and identify with him.
“I know for me and for us in Ogun state, we are supporting him.”
Meanwhile, Ibrahim Emokpaire, one of the contenders, has announced his withdrawal from the race, declaring his support for Oshiomhole.
“My decision (to withdraw) was taken after due consultations with members of my family, my political associates, leaders of our great party and admirers,” he said in a joint press conference with Oshiomhole.
“I have decided, as a loyal party member and a leader of our great party, to withdraw my nomination in order to unite our party and join forces with our amiable leader, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to move our party forward.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment