Share this on WhatsApp



By Esther Egbe
The President , Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick  told National Daily  that the Super Eagles still had chance to progress to the knockout stage of the Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup .
He said that in spite of the Eagles’ 0 – 2 loss to Croatia , the team could still make something out of Group D.
Pinnick said that no country in Group D can yet boast of qualification .
“ Croatia made good from set pieces in Kaliningrad on Saturday , winning 2 – 0 to top Group D ahead of Argentina and Iceland , who finished 1 – 1 and have one point each .
Amaju added that “ We expected to win against Croatia but it did not happen and the whole team , as well as the federation have put that behind us and looking ahead with hope to the next two matches.
“ I have spoken with the coach and the players and they have confidence that the job can be done.
“ They feel bad to have lost the first match and are determined to go out there and do what they have to do against Iceland on Friday, ” he said in a statement by the NFF Director of Communications, Ademola Olajire .
Pinnick noted that in football , a lot is possible if the heart is there to go out and conquer .
“ Losing your first match of a major competition is not an automatic exit ticket . Spain lost their first match of the 2010 FIFA World Cup finals and still went ahead to win the tournament .
” If Croatia emerge unscathed against Argentina in Nizhni Novgorod on Thursday , ” he said .
The NFF president and member of the CAF Executive Committee , also appealed to Nigerians back home to continue to support the young team with kind words and prayers .
“ The Federal Government through the Minister of Youth and Sports , Solomon Dalung , who is here in Russia supporting the team and giving them words of encouragement, has appealed to Nigerians to keep supporting the team .
“ The NFF is also appealing to them to continue to encourage the team with kind words and prayers .
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment