Share this on WhatsApp



Nigerian football stakeholders in Russia to support the Super Eagles in their World Cup campaign have asked the proprietor of Nigeria Professional Football League club, IfeanyiUbah Football Club, Dr. Ifeanyi Ubah, to take caution and stop his political campaign for the post of Chairman of Chairmen on the board  of the football federation in the forth coming NFF elections scheduled for Katsina in September 2018,National Daily learnt.
The stakeholders who spoke on grounds of anonymity reiterated that Dr. Ubah should wait until he returns to Nigeria to flag off his campaign to oust the current Chairman of Chairmen, Alhaji Ibrahim Gasau.
One of the stakeholders said: “It was wrong for Dr. Ubah to start an open campaign in the presence of board members, journalists and other football stakeholders while on the way back from Kaliningrad after Eagles’ first game.
“As if that was not enough, the unsavoury social media campaign targetted against the leadership of the NFF which went viral after the Nigerian delegation returned to their base in St. Petersburg, was in its entirety linked to him. Though he denied any involvement in the mischievous story, it was sad to know that he would ever be linked to such despite his denial.”
In that mischievous write up that, it was claimed that the Super Eagles camp was is disarray. It was also erroneously claimed that the Sports Minister, Barrister Solomon Dalung, was locked out of his hotel room and that election forms were flying around at the Hilton hotel in St Petersburg, where the NFF board members are accommodated. And also that the Congress members (FA Chairmen) who were on their way to Russia were spoil for war when they arrive. All these were aimed at discrediting the NFF board.
“This was uncalled for, nothing but high level dirty politics and a wide departure from what the NFF board agreed before the kick-off of Russia 2018, that everyone coming to the World Cup venue would be there only to support the Super Eagles and not be involved in political campaigns,” the stakeholders said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment