Share this on WhatsApp



The configuration of populist feelings towards the 2019 presidential election is beginning to shape activities surrounding  peoples affective impulse towards the various aspirants for the exalted office in Nigeria.  Apparently, a public opinion poll conducted by publicity consultants of President Muhammadu Buhari showed that the incumbent president is rapidly losing goodwill and popular affection in the country while former Vice President Atiku Abubakar is recording ascending affective solidarity from many Nigerians.
Accordingly, former  Vice President Atiku Abubakar, the leading presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),  widely defeated President Muhammadu Buhari, the widely endorsed presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in an online survey conducted by the president’s publicity consultants.
National Daily gathered that immediately after the May 29, 2018, Democracy Day and third Year Anniversary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) government, Buhari campaign workers carried out series of public survey.  It was revealed that in the first poll conducted by Mark Essien via his Twitter handle @markessien, Atiku polled 43% while Buhari trailed him with 35%.
In the second the poll conducted by @YNaija, Atiku widened the gap of defeat with 70% saying yes to his candidacy while Buhari had 19%. The other participants in the poll, Prof. Kingsley Moghalu and Mr. Fela Durotoye polled 6% and 5%, respectively.
The poll which commenced May 29 and ended 11.00pm, June 1, asked respondents: “Which of them will have your vote, if you had to vote today?”
At the end of the voting, 7,444 respondents participated in the survey, 7 out of every 10 respondents, representing about 5,210 supported Atiku while 1,414 went for Buhari’s vote of 1,414; Moghalu’s 446 and Durotoye’s 372.
The outcome of the poll by YNaija, Nigeria’s most successful youth blog run by Red Media, who played a major role in Buhari’s media during the 2015 elections, is a reflection of result of the latest poll by NOI/Gallup Poll which saw President Buhari’s rating dip to 41%.
In that NO1/Gallup Poll also, the administration’s three years scorecard in the critical areas that have the greatest impact on the lives of ordinary Nigerians, the presumed base of the president were dismal: Economy was rated 16%; Job Creation 15%; and Poverty Alleviation 12%.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment