Share this on WhatsApp



Access Bank held its prestigious annual Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Awards over the weekend to celebrate the achievement and commitment of its staff members.
The Afro-infused black tie event which held at the Landmark Event Center in Lagos showcased great performances from the staff themselves, fun set pieces with palm wine cocktails, Pan-African Cuisines and traditional performers with talking drums and men on stilts.
Access Bank’s Group Managing Director/CEO, Herbert Wigwe who commended staff for their zealous work throughout the year, congratulated recipients of the various awards in different categories.
He said, “We do not need magic to change the world, we carry all the power we need inside ourselves already; we have the power to imagine better. You all carry the power within each of you to help us succeed most especially as Access Bank is determined to be Africa’s Gateway to the world. Each year, we move several steps closer to that goal”
Commending and inspiring all present at the event, Wigwe said, “We do it by all of us here today playing individual and collective roles towards the achievement of the Bank’s goal as well as ensuring our customers’ expectations are constantly surpassed. We must all continue to be relentless in our pursuit of excellence.”
In line with the Bank’s vision to be the World’s Most Respected African Bank, the 2018 CEO awards was designed to celebrate employees who have done the extra to enhance the quality of service provided by the Bank and project its image rightly. The award program enhances employee morale, loyalty and increased organizational productivity. The program also supports the Bank’s recruitment campaign, employee engagements and recognizes the efforts of its high performing employees.
The awards ceremony was witnessed by many of the country’s industry leaders, public servants and politicians including President of Dangote Industries, Aliko Dangote, Chairman of Forte Oil, Femi Otedola, Tunde Folawiyo among many others.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment