Share this on WhatsApp



Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has declared that he has not endorsed former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, leading presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), for the party’s ticket despite the colourful reception given to the former Vice President when he visited Delta State on Wednesday.
Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar was in Delta State on Wednesday in continuation of his consultations and horse trading for the presidential ticket of the PDP for the 2019 elections. He was given a heroic reception on arrival and throughout the period he was in the state.

National Daily, monitoring the visit from Lagos, observed that Governor Okowa made arrangements for colourful reception of the former Vice President by government and PDP officials, including other citizens to make Delta State a comfortable home for Atiku,  PDP leading presidential aspirant throughout his stay in the state.
The elaborate reception accorded Atiku, thereafter, led to innuendos that the Delta State governor has given his support to the former vice president.
Okowa, however, contended that the colourful reception should not mislead people into believing what does not exist or is yet to be decided.
The Governor, however, maintained that the former vice president spoke in ways that aroused the interest of the people in the state; more so, when he identified himself as a friend of the state. He remarked that he cannot interrupt the people’s choice, in any way; and if Atiku is the choice of the people of Delta State, so be it.
Okowa at his quarterly media interaction in the state, declared: “I have not said I am supporting Atiku.
“I made my statement which was clear and cautious.
“If you followed us properly, you will discover that when he talked to Deltans, he made a lot of statements which did interest our people, and he has said he is a friend of the state.
“He talked about restructuring and the rest. And if his programme continues to interest the people, I will not be able to hold back the hands of the people. I am not going to force any delegate to the national convention to vote the way Okowa thinks or feels.”
Governor Okowa maintained that the quality of reception given to Atiku was the same given to another presidential aspirant,  former Governor of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido, when he visited Delta State.
The governor accordingly stated: “When Sule Lamido came, people know that he spoke so well, Lamido is also a man I respect so well, and he was well received.”
Okowa assured that he will not interfere with people’s decisions to vote the candidate that wins their conscience or conviction.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment