Share this on WhatsApp








The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has taken a swipe at the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the opposition Party’s  call on the Independent national electoral Commission (INEC) to nullify the election of Adams Oshiomhole, former Governor of Edo State, over an unattended petition of corruption allegations hanging on the APC national chairman.

APC National Legal Adviser, Babatunde Ogala, said in Lagos that the  PDP was merely chasing shadows in calling on the INEC to void the election of the new APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, alleging that it was not in compliance with the Electoral Act 2010 as amended.

Ogala in a media interaction in Lagos, noted that the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola
Ologbodiyan, who made the statement, betrayed his ignorance of the law.

Ogala had stated: “In responding to Mr. Ologbodiyan, I will take cognizance of his lack of knowledge of law and could therefore only have uttered those words attributed to him out of ignorance of the provisions of APC Constitution. I am also not unaware of the fact that Mr. Ologbodiyan, having not been present at the venue of the convention, could only have uttered his words based on hearsay and gossips.

“The import of the extant provision of Article 20 of the APC Constitution was obviously not known to Mr. Ologbodiyan and his party PDP at the time he made his assertions.

“As Mr. Ologbodiyan and his PDP were not present at our Convention, they are busy-bodies who could not have known that the election of the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and 21 other officers that that were elected unopposed all had the attendant overwhelming ‘YES’ Votes at the National Convention at Eagle Square and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was a compliant observer of the convention. Mr. Ologbondiyan was fishing in uncharted and murky dark waters and now needs help.”

Ogala contended that, “Honourable Justice Nnaemeka Agu of the Court of Appeal in the case of: Rufus Faloyinbo Vs Ibidapo Awojolu & Anor (1979) LPELR – FCA/3/56/78 held as follows:- “It is the law that in a case where there is no opposition, the date on which the candidate is returned unopposed is the date of his election”.

The national legal adviser maintained that APC is different from PDP. “We do not coerce our Chairmen and Officers out of office through brute force.  Neither do we impose leaders through inducement or shove them forcefully down the throats of our members. That is the difference between us, as the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, said at our convention that ‘we are progressive. They are backward. They are despotic,    we are democratic’.

“For the avoidance of doubts, those candidates who stepped down their ambitions to allow others elected unopposed, were clearly motivated by the larger interest of the party and sustenance and deepening of our democratic process. We salute those persons as the heroes of our party.

“It is the success of our convention, obviously, that makes the PDP uneasy and fidgety to start chasing shadows and winking in the dark. May they continue their shadow chasing,”Ogala declared.














Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment