Share this on WhatsApp


Chief John Odigie-Oyegun-led National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress will on Tuesday meet to take a final decision on the list of delegates and candidates for the June 23 national convention.

National Daily gathered that this is coming on the heels of tension generated by speculations that the Governor Rochas Okorocha-led Screening Appeals Committee had disqualified the three aspirants vying for positions zoned to the South-East.

The three persons are: the incumbent National Organising Secretary, Senator Osita Izunaso, the National Auditor, George Moghalu and the National Vice-Chairman (South-East), Emma Enekwu.

A top ranking member of the party’s National Working Committee who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue, said, the Imo State governor disqualified the three persons who had earlier been cleared by the screening committee based on a “frivolous” petition.

The party leader, however, explained that unknown to the governor, the final decision on the list of delegates and contestants remains the prerogative of the NWC.

The source said, “It is unfortunate that the chairman of that committee (Okorocha) doesn’t seem to understand his mandate.

“The appeals committee does not have the power to ban or disqualify anybody. Its assignment is restricted to dealing with appeals emanating from the conduct of the convention but because he has a score to settle he thinks he can disqualify people by fiat.”
 
However, when contacted on the telephone, Emma Eneukwu said, “It (disqualification) is not true. Does he (Okorocha) have any right to disqualify me? For what! It’s not true.”

Speaking in a similar vein, the APC National Auditor, George Moghalu, told our correspondent on telephone “I am not aware of it, besides, the (screening appeals) committee has no such powers.”
 
When contacted, the Secretary of the APC National Convention Committee, Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba (SAN), told one of our correspondents that the function of the screening appeals sub-committee was limited to reviewing cases of those who were screened out by the screening committee.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment