Share this on WhatsApp



The crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) continues to take new twist as the party intensifies preparations for the 2019 general elections. Several party stakeholders have continued to show signs of loss of confidence in the party’s hierarchy and organization, leading to their resolves to turn down certain duties assigned to them by the party leadership.
Accordingly,  the Secretary of the APC National Convention Planning Committee, Senator Benjamin Uwajumogu, in a letter dated May 31, 2018, to the national Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, resigned from the convention planning committee.
Uwajumogu in the resignation letter noted that upon  inauguration of the committee on April 23, 2018, they had hoped that the national convention would hold on May 14, 2018, and later June 2, 2018; he protested that the shift in date conflicts with the  schedules of his duties as a Senator in the National Assembly. “The extension of the National Convention to the 23rd of June, 2018 affords me very little time to effectively apply myself to the demands of my constituency, and legislative work at the Senate, with the constant need to be in defence of our party position and Mr. President, even with the re-introduction of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill,” he declared.
The Senator suggested his replacement with any member of the National Convention Committee from the South East, since the position was zoned to the area.
“Furthermore, the ill blond generated and stoked by the Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, can thus be assuaged and  calm frayed nerves to allow the party progress as a united family,” Uwajumogu further declared.
He was replaced with Senator Victor Ndoma Egba, Chairman of the Board of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC).
The Senator pledged his continued support for the party and the leadership.
APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, on Saturday acknowledged the resignation, and admitted that  the party hierarchy had since accepted his resignation. He dismissed reports that Uwajumogu was forced to resign as a way of pacifying to Okorocha who had threatened to dump the ruling party should his request for a new Secretary be rejected or ignored.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment