Share this on WhatsApp



1. What was the wisdom behind leaving Iheanacho on the field for 45 minutes? Iheanacho was useless from kickoff and doesn’t deserve 20 minutes.
2. You needed a draw agajbsr Argentina to quality, you had the advantage until 85 minutes and had the option of two substitutes still on the bench, then  what was the most logical thing to do?
A. Introduce a midfielder to kill off 45 seconds, and after two minutes introduce a defender to lock up the game.
Rohr didn’t do both, instead he waited for Rojo to score in the 86th minute before bringing on Iwobi and Simy in added time, to perform miracles.
3. You went to Russia with 20 outfield players and just 14 or so tasted action. The remaining six plus the three goalkeepers returned as they went yet they were paid bonuses.
That is criminal.
4. You played Argentina with Mikel on the pitch for 90 minutes even when it was obvious he needed additional support from Ogu or Onazi or needed to be substituted. You left him there struggling to the end.
Rohr but why?
5. You went to the World Cup  with 6  defensive midfielders and just one creative midfielder and wanted them to do magic against Croatia that had the creative brilliance of Modric, Rakitic and Perisic.
No wonder you were compelled to push Mikel to creative midfield against Croatia and got ur fingers burnt so early.
MY VERDICT
In 1998, 2010 and 2014 we made it to the second round yet the National team coaches on all three occasions were sacked on arrival.
Mr Gernot Rohr, we appreciate your efforts but it is obvious you have overstayed your welcome.
You came thru London with a certain Mr Tunde Adelakun the taxi driver turned scout and team manager. We are tired of this scam,  please the time to leave is now.
You have enjoyed 45,000 dollars monthly salary for doing nothing. Even our hardworking president ( Bubu)  doesn’t get that much so why must we keep you? Enough is enough!
Nigerians arise and push this campaign!!
Rohr must leave our football alone, we want a change.
Two sons of the soil Shuaibu Amodu and Stephen Keshi performed better than Rohr, they gave us better memories and took us as far as the second round of the world cup. They are dead today, but they will not live to support this injustice.
Rohr did not make the round of 16, he has to go now.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment