Share this on WhatsApp





1. Surepredicts
Surepredicts.com is a good and trusted site for your match predictions, at surepredicts. You will be able to see so many games and their predictions arranged appropriately. Surepredicts provides free and paid football tips and predictions; their predictions have the highest winning rate in Nigeria. You can check out their website at www.surepredicts.com to see the current match predictions and Tips. Some of the people I know using this site has made good money from their predictions
2. Jersey Number Twelve
The very best soccer prediction sites in Nigeria. Those who know the tipster behind this platform say he is a guru at the games prediction (they call him ‘The Oracle’, because he wins more than he loses). If you read his football stories, which are also usually on the websites, you will know why he is good at predicting correctly. The founder of this website has invested his time and resources in acquiring sound knowledge of the game. This reflects on his different write ups for his site and www.nationaldailyng.com . You can get free betting tips and codes as well as special sales offers on www.jerseynumbertwelve.com  .
3. BetShoot
This website predicts matches daily and it’s a personal favorite of many persons I know. Their predictions works just fine 90% of the time. When betting on this site, you might be forced or tempted to bet more as most games are usually predicted correctly, I would advice you apply modesty when betting so as not to get your fingers burnt. www.betshoot.com
4. Forebet
Hook up on this website. Arguably one of the best football prediction sites you can bank on. Visit their website as they also give very valuable and on time information on any team you wish to predict their match.
5. Statarea
This site shows you the most recent games and their current statistics, which engages each punter and helps you make a better decision. As we all know, timely information is what wins war, therefore, armed with these good statistics your chances of getting a very good prediction is very high.
6. Zulubet
This football prediction site may not be as popular as the others but trust me, it is a top site real punters do their predictions. When you arrive at the site, you will notice that there are games you may predict on and also find latest information on them.
7. Soccer Vista
Most punter knows this website as its visited by thousands monthly. Soccer vista is a very good prediction site with detailed statistics on previous results between 2 teams. This website provides predictions for English premier league, Allsvenka which is the Swedish, Tippeligaen which falls under the Norwegian league, Argentina premier division, Serie A, Bundesliga and the Spanish La Liga. www.soccervista.com
8. Futbol24
This site covers one of the fastest football live results round the globe! Check out our live scores, follow the fixtures, and compare team statistics and much more. You will be able to see full live scores of various matches, current statistics of each team and whole lots of other relevant information for your satisfaction.
9. WinDrawWin
Win draw win is without doubt one of the most popular soccer prediction sites in the world at large. This gives football predictions and statistics from over 140 leagues in the world from various divisions. They give over 20,000 predictions every year. They have good stats punters make use of when predicting games. Here I can assure you that you are definitely on the right path to winning big. Though I would advice you don’t throw caution in the wind.
10. Adibet
Also a good prediction site giving free soccer predictions. One that is also worth a try as a punter, you may use these websites to your advantage. I have listed the top 10 best football prediction Sites and sure winning strategies. Now you know where to get the latest sports statistics and prediction news on any game. You may add any prediction website I may have omitted below using the comment box.
A worthy mention: Soccerpunter
This is also one of the best football prediction sites you can count on. Though similar to the prediction site listed above, you will find sports news and statistics of teams playing each day. You can visit the website and start betting. You can win big cash here too. I actually have a friend who is an addict in betting, he has made a fortune from it and I remember he always talked so fondly about soccer punter as one of his best prediction sites for football and other games. Visit www.socerpunter.com
Remember the sites are not 100% correct, but I can guarantee you a 90 to 95% chance of winning should you use any of the prediction sites listed above.
Another rule is the Modesty rule, It is only wise to apply modesty in all we do in life, which also applies in betting games after getting your predictions as this minimizes any risk of losing huge chunk of your money completely.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment