Share this on WhatsApp







By Lanre Adesanya 

The Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR) has urge President Muhammadu Buhari to tackle poverty and insecurity ravaging the entire nation.

The Chairman of the Lagos State Chapter of CDHR , Mr Alex Omotehinse made the assertion at the 2018 National Liberation Day of the group tagged, “Declaration of June 12 as the Nigeria’s Democracy Day After 25 Years, What Next?”,with scores of members in attendance.

According  to Omotehinse who hinted that CDHR chose June 23rd being the day the unprecedented credible election was annulled to make a statement that will prick national
consciousness for true justice.

“Governance is not a easy task, I think President Buhari is trying but  he should intensify efforts at tackling problems of poverty, insecurity and  economy.

“To give ‘hope’ that late MKO Abiola, the presumed winner of June 12, 1993 Presidential Election, stood for. I commended Buhari for declaring June 12 as the Democracy Day as against May 29 and the award of the Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR) conferred on the late Abiola”.

Omotehinse, who also commended the President for the award of Grand Commander of the Order of Niger (GCON) conferred on the late human rights lawyer, Chief Gani Fawehinmi, said that human rights were non negotiable..

According to him, late Fawehinmi declared June 23 as the National Liberation Day because it was the day the June 12, 1993 election was annulled by the military administration led by Gen. Ibrahim Babangida.

He added that June 23, 1994 was also the day late Abiola was arrested by the military Head of State, Gen. Sani Abacha, saying June 23 remained a memorable day.

Omotehinse, who frowned as monetisation of politics, said that elective and appointive positions must be less attractive.

He commended the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr Edgal Imohimi, for partnering with civil society organisations

The Guest Speaker, Mr Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour, who commended the CDHR for always defending the rights of the common man, said the posterity would remember the price the group played in June 12 struggle.

On the way forward after declaration of June 12 as the Democracy Day, Rhodes-Vivour said that Nigeria had to do a lot on electoral violence, ballot snatch, disenfranchisement of voters to move the nation’s democracy forward.

“We need do a lot to make our election free, fair and acceptable. Our elections are marred with violence, rigging, ballot snatching and inducement.

“INEC must do more to ensure that workers who are busy in their professions are provided opportunity to register especially on weekends,” he said.

The speaker urged the President to focus attention on insecurity, human rights violation by police and ensure transparent leadership and justice.

Also speaking, Mr Godwin Anyebe, National Vice President, CDHR, added: “The struggle has just begun because this is not the Nigeria that MKO Abiola dreamt and stood for.

“MKO was a Pan-Africanist. His main dream was to eradicate poverty.

“For me, democracy has not started in Nigeria until ever Nigerian child has access to free education, free healthcare, shelter over our head, fairness, equity and justice.

“Before we say we are practising democracy, we must go back to restructuring, food must be on our tables and there must be adequate security,” he said.

Another speaker, Mr Adetunji Adebajo, the Secretary, Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (Chevron Branch) said that June 12 represented unity and brotherliness of Nigerian people.

Adebajo, who urged the President to look into various reports of constitutional conferences, said such consideration would provide a road map to produce a constitution that would guarantee true federalism.

“The President should summon courage and demonstrate patriotism and ignore all unpatriotic individuals, groups and nationalities standing against restructuring and true federal system of government!

“Genuine federalism is the most ideal political system in all multiethnic nationality countries throughout the world.,” he added.










Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment