It could be all change at Manchester United this summer if recent transfer gossip from various sources is to be believed. The Red Devils have just endured another disappointing season, finishing the campaign without any silverware and ending up a distant second behind Manchester City in the Premier League.
Jose Mourinho surely cannot be happy with the state of this squad as it’s reported he’s planning some big spending to go alongside deals that are already in place. The club confirmed the signing of Diogo Dalot this week, while the official site also report they’ve agreed a deal to bring in Fred from Shakhtar Donetsk.
What next for United? It sounds like they could be busy, with some big names potentially heading out to aid the club in spending on fresh faces to deliver a squad more to Mourinho’s liking.
Out – Paul Pogba
It was a difficult season for Paul Pogba in particular, with the France international occasionally finding himself out of favour with Mourinho as he briefly lost his place in the starting XI.
And when he did play, Pogba looked a shadow of his former self, particularly in the second half of the season, leading to talk that he could be on his way out of Manchester after just two seasons.
The Daily Record have reported of Pogba being offered to Paris Saint-Germain, while Diario Gol add that United have set an asking price of £88m for the 25-year-old this summer.
In – Sergej Milinkovic-Savic
milinkovic savic lazioManchester United transfer target Sergej Milinkovic-Savic would be a superb signing
It has been suggested that this deal is already in place, with the Sun recently claiming United had wrapped up the £80m transfer of exciting Lazio midfielder Sergej Milinkovic-Savic.
The Serbia international would be ideal for United if they were to offload Pogba, and could even line up alongside him, Fred and Nemanja Matic in a dream scenario, though fitting them all in often enough might be tricky for Mourinho.
Milinkovic-Savic perhaps seems more suited to the Portuguese’s style of play than Pogba anyway, so fans will hope this one can be finalised soon.
Here’s a selection of three rumoured players heading out and three targets who could head in that would reshape this team in a big way ahead of the new season:
Out – Anthony Martial
After struggling for regular playing time last season and failing to make real progress under Mourinho, this could be the end for Anthony Martial at Old Trafford.
Tottenham are after attacking players and could now look at the France international after being priced out of a move for Wilfried Zaha, according to the Daily Mail.
Martial seems an ideal fit for Spurs and would surely see more starts in north London, with the Mail suggesting United could be prepared to let the player go if they receive as much as possible of the total of £58million they paid Monaco for him.
In – Gareth Bale
Replacing Martial in attack could be Real Madrid’s Champions League final hero Gareth Bale, if reports are to be believed. The Wales international made it pretty clear in his BT Sport interview after that game that he wasn’t happy with his role at the Bernabeu last season, and said he’d likely sit down and sort out his future with his agent this summer.
The Daily Mirror report that Bale, who’d likely cost £100m, has informed Bayern Munich he’d rather move to the Premier League if he leaves Real, following Don Balon‘s report that the Red Devils had stepped up talks over the signing in the last few days.
Out – Victor Lindelof
Man Utd’s Victor LindelofManchester United would do well to cash in on Victor Lindelof
After one disappointing season at Old Trafford, Victor Lindelof’s time with United may already be up as clubs start to show an interest. The Daily Mirror report that Everton want the Sweden international, who has badly struggled to establish himself with the Red Devils so far. Tightening up at the back should be a priority for United this summer, so if Lindelof isn’t up to scratch, one imagines it could make sense to cash in on the player if Everton do pay as much as £35m, as the Mirror suggest.
In – Toby Alderweireld
Replacing Lindelof in defence could be Tottenham centre-back Toby Alderweireld, who would be a superb, if expensive, signing from rivals Spurs. Alderweireld is expected to command an asking price of as much as £55m, but the Evening Standard also say United remain confident of getting this deal done. If they can manage it, replacing Lindelof with Alderweireld, Pogba with Milinkovic-Savic and Martial with Bale, this would go down as a hugely successful summer for United, and not too expensive a transfer window either due to the funds these sales could bring in.


			
			PV: 
			0