Share this on WhatsApp



The leadership of the nPDP has announced withdrawal from its dialogue with the ruling APC.
The nPDP chairman, Abubakar Baraje, announced the decision after considering how the ruling party is treating its faction.
“While we are truly and earnestly committed to achieving reconciliation, harmony, truce and cohesion in the APC as we approach the 2019 general elections, it is appears that the Presidency is not interested in the talks and that they may have been negotiating in bad faith,’ said Baraje in a statement on Monday.
He cited the police invitation of Senate President Bukola Saraki for questioning in a case of armed robbery and murder among indicators of the government’s alleged half-heartedness.
“We were alarmed that immediately after our meeting with the Vice President last week, the presidency misrepresented what transpired at the meeting by trying to blackmail some of the principal actors involved in the discussions in a national daily.
“Similarly, the leadership of the party (APC) went ahead to ratify all the Congresses from ward, local governments, states and zonal where many of our members have complaints, effectively presenting us with a fait accompli.”
According to him, it appears that there is a fouled and toxic atmosphere and environment of intimidation and threat t which may no longer be conducive for members of the former nPDP to continue with the talks.
” Given the unfolding events in the last 24 hours, where the President of the Senate, His Excellency, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki and His Excellency, Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed, the Executive Governor of Kwara State , both of whom attended the meeting with the Vice President on Monday 28 May, 2018 ,have suddenly been accused of sponsoring armed robbery by the Police under the directives of the Presidency.
“Similarly, on Saturday, June 2nd, 2018, the Department of State of Services (DSS) also suddenly withdrew more than half of all the security details attached to the presiding officers of the National Assembly under questionable circumstances.”
He said the nPDP leadership has decided to brief its members on the unfortunate development and get a fresh mandate if good faith returns to the discussions.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment