Share this on WhatsApp


An anti-corruption crusader, Bishop Osadolor Ochei has petitioned the United States over President Muhammadu Buhari’s anti-corruption war, describing the fight as being biased and one sided.

The petition dated June 18 and addressed to the Ambassador of the United States of America to Nigeria was titled: Nigeria government anti-corruption war compromised: the Adams Oshiomhole case.

In the petition made available to National Daily, Bishop Ochei accused President Buhari of protecting obvious corruption cases with documented evidences, referring to his petition against former governor of Edo state, Adams Oshiomhole.

“On the 28th October, 2016, I transmitted a detailed petition with over 86 attached exhibits to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, and published same in the Daily Sun Newspaper of 7th November, 2016. In the petition, I made serious corruption allegations against Comrade Adams Oshiomhole who was governor of Edo State from 12th November, 2008 to 11th November, 2016.”

He alleged that despite several visits to the office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) with detailed evidences, nothing was done.

He was therefore forced to approach the federal high court in Abuja to compel the anti-graft agency to investigate his petition against the All Progressives Congress National Chairmanship aspirant.
 
Bishop Ochei also alleged that the former Edo state governor Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has been boasting openly that he was untouchable and that no anti-corruption Agency of Government would dare investigate him.

“He even went further to threaten that as soon as he was installed the National Chairman of APC, he would use all the agencies of his government to hound me for daring to petition EFCC on his activities while he was governor of Edo State, between 12th November 2008 and 11th November 2016.”

He therefore appealed to the Ambassador to use his office and influence in ensuring that the matter was not swept under the carpet.

Recently, Bishop Osadolor Ochei had asked a Federal High Court in Abuja for an order of mandamus compelling the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to commence criminal proceedings against former Edo state governor and currently National Chairmanship aspirant, Comrade Adams Aliu Oshiomhole on alleged corruption.

An ex-parte motion marked FHC/ABJ/CS/628/2018 praying the court to order EFCC to put Oshiomole on trial followed the Bishop’s petition to the EFCC, dated October 28, 2016 against Oshiomhole.

In an affidavit deposed personally by the applicant, he averred that, in view of the fact that corruption has become a societal ill which has eaten deep into the fabric of the society, there is the need for the EFCC to take complaints against corrupt practices serious.
 
He said he has severally complained to the EFCC about allegation of corrupt practices against Oshiomhole without eliciting any response or interest by the commission.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment