Share this on WhatsApp



The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), on Thursday, dissociated the Association from the report linking the Chairman of MACBAN in the North Central , Danladi Ciroma, that  the recent killings in Plateau State was a retaliation for 300 cows killed by the people.
The National Secretary of Miyetti Allah,  Othman Ngelzarma, was monitored on Channels Television, saying that the comments do not reflect the true position of MACBAN, noting that the zonal chairman should be solely responsible for his statement.
Ngelzarma had stated inter alia, “The statement made by the zonal chairman should be credited to him.
“That should be his personal opinion because I believe he should be an indigene of Plateau State.”
It will be recalled that Ciroma, on Monday, reportedly  said that the attack on some communities in Plateau was in retaliation of the killing of 300 cows belonging to members of the group.
Ciroma had said on Monday: “These attacks are retaliatory. As much as I don’t support the killing of human beings, the truth must be told that those who carried out the attacks must be on a revenge mission.
Miyetti Allah National Secretary discredited the comments, condemning the attack in which about 200 persons were declared dead and several others injured.
Ngelzarma commiserated with families of the victims who died in the pogrom, including the government and people of Plateau State.
“It is so wicked, it is condemnable. We don’t condone it, we do not like it. It is really unfortunate and we sympathise with the communities in that area,” he declared.
The Miyetti Allah National Secretary also stated that  members of the association found in possession of sophisticated weapons should be treated as criminals.
Ngelzarma declared in part: “Whoever is holding a dangerous weapon up to the level of AK-47, we consider that person to be a criminal as far as we are concerned.
“We know these are prohibited arms that should not be held by any other person apart from the security operatives. Apart from that, I don’t think it is allowed for anybody in this country to hold a dangerous weapon as AK-47.”


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment