Share this on WhatsApp


Festus Keyamo, a senior advocate of Nigeria (SAN) says nobody should be worried or be concerned about the health of President Muhammadu Buhari as he seeks to contest the 2019 presidential election, saying the president is fine.

Speaking at the weekend, Keyamo, who is the spokesman for Buhari’s re-election campaign, said the world has watched with excitement and happiness how much the President has bounced back to health since he came back from his medical vacation.

“And I am sure you have seen that yourself. The President is looking fresher, younger, cleaner, and more handsome on the lighter side. We have had presidents that were never sick before, but they just slumped and died, like the case of (Gen. Sani) Abacha. Was Abacha ever sick?

“These are matters in the hands of God and anybody who wants to play God will incur the wrath of God.”

Also reacting to the purported clampdown on the opposition party by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government, Keyamo said the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) is being haunted by its “atrocities”, adding that the party has lost the sympathy of Nigerians.

“You can see that is why they are not getting the sympathy of Nigerians because the people know that they (PDP members) are crying foul.

“So, on the issue of clampdown on the opposition, that is a military term. It does not apply and it will never apply in a democratic setting such as this.
 
“They are the ones who called for the looters’ list and the federal government obliged them. Can you see that these people are confused?

“The members of the PDP, with all due respect, are like somebody who had ‘killed’ so many people. I am not saying that literally; I am saying this as an analogy.

“They have committed so much sin against Nigerians that, right now, they are not thinking straight again. That is what is taunting them right now.

“That is why you see them issuing all kinds of inconsistent statements. They are no longer thinking straight.”





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment