Share this on WhatsApp



With Nigeria out of the World Cup, the forthcoming NFF elections is now the key focus for the NFF officials, as they have begun maneuvering to woo the delegates.
And after much haggling, state FA chairmen were paid $4,000 for being part of the World Cup jamboree, National Daily learnt.
The 36 FA chairmen plus that of the FCT are the bulk of the 44-man congress who will vote for a new executive committee of the NFF on September 29 in Katsina.
A source told  National Daily that The FA chairmen rejected an initial $3,000 before they settled for $4,000 in Saint Petersburg.
“Their secretaries, who will not vote at the elections, were paid half that sum.”
Former top NFF chieftains who also made the trip to Russia were paid $3,000 a man after they also turned down an initial offer of $1,500.
Cash will again play a crucial role in the next NFF vote.
At the September 2014 polls in Warri, the leading candidate paid as much as $13,000 to each delegate.
Xxx
Fellaini remains a Devil!
Manchester United is delighted to announce that Marouane Fellaini has signed a new contract which will keep him at the club until June 2020, with the option to extend for a further year.
Fellaini, 30, joined United in 2013 and has made 156 appearances and scored 20 goals. During his time at the club he has won the FA Cup, EFL Cup, UEFA Europa League and Community Shield.
Marouane Fellaini said: “I am pleased to be continuing my journey as a Manchester United player. I made this decision because I am very happy here. Also, I feel like this team, under Jose, still has a lot we want to achieve.
Fellaini, 30, joined United in 2013 and has made 156 appearances and scored 20 goals. During his time at the club he has won the FA Cup, EFL Cup, UEFA Europa League and Community Shield.
Marouane Fellaini said: “I am pleased to be continuing my journey as a Manchester United player. I made this decision because I am very happy here. Also, I feel like this team, under Jose, still has a lot we want to achieve.
“I would like to say a special thank you to Jose for the faith he has always shown in me. My focus now is on the World Cup and I am looking forward to a successful season ahead.”
Jose Mourinho said: “I am very happy Marouane is staying with us.
“I always believed in his desire to stay with the club and I am delighted that he has signed a new contract.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment