Share this on WhatsApp

Cautioned over attack on party leadership




Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State has since the Ward, local government and state congresses of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) across the country, been floating on sinking political boat in the party. The governor was roundly defeated in all the congresses by other APC leaders in the state but he refused to accept defeat and seek  negotiations with the new party leaders in the state. Since then, however, the embattled governor has been blasting APC national leadership, accusing them of collaborating with Senator hope Uzodimma and Osita Okechukwu, Director general, Voice of Nigeria (VON), to work against his leadership of the party in Imo State.
The Imo governor subsequently compounded his woes by provoking APC national leadership to issue him  strong warning that the party would not tolerate his attacks on its leadership.
APC National Publicity Secretary, Bolaji Abdulahi,  chided the Imo governor over an advertorial placed by one of his associates that the party was duly served a court injunction to stop the congress in Imo State, describing it as false and misleading.
APC National Publicity Secretary, Bolaji Abdulahi, in a statement on Wednesday blasted Governor Okorocha for continuously making libelous allegations against the party and its leaders.
The Publicity Secretary protested that  there were attempts to deceive members of the public on the true state of things regarding the congress in Imo State by forging a memo purportedly signed by the party’s National Legal Adviser, Mr. Muiz Banire, adding that the party has commenced investigation of the falsification.
“We, therefore, once again urge Governor Okorocha to tread the path of caution and reconciliation and to work with the duly elected party executives in the state for the good of the party. We shall, however, not tolerate his constant assault on the party, either directly or through proxies,” Abdulahi declared.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment