Share this on WhatsApp



 
It was a result that millions of football loving Nigerians wished for and it was a splendid performance that gladdened the hearts of fans of Super Eagles all over the world cup. A very flawless second half display that guaranteed two unreplied goals for the Super Eagles.
The players raised their game. Defended well, well coordinated at the midfield and the attack was razor sharp.
Francis Uzoho
The young goalkeeper continued to improve. It showed in the game against Iceland. Those early saves of his in the game  gave him the needed confidence to power on. May be his rugged face scared Surgursson to miss the penalty awarded to Iceland late in the game. There is no doubt that his future is bright in the national team.
His rating is 6/10.
Brian Idowu.
I was restless when i saw Brian Idowu in the starting line up yesterday. He was struggling to make an impact in the formation that Gernot Rohr deployed in the game and I am sure that millions of Nigerians were relieved when the Russian born player was replaced at the begining of second half.
His rating is 2/10.
Leon Balogun
Balogun played very well at the right full back position. The Icelanders could not penetrate the Eagles ‘ defence through his position.
His rating is 6/10
William Troost Ekong.
He cordinated the central defence very well with Kenneth Omeruo. The central defence had no problem despite pairing with Kenneth Omeruo.
His rating is 6/10
Kenneth Omeruo
I am sure that mix feelings was in the air for football loving Nigerians when the team list showed that Keneth Omeruo is starting the game , but his performance indicated that his club form in Turkey was not a fluke .
His rating is 6/10.
Mikel Obi
The captain of the team displayed great leadership quality to rally his troup for victory in the game. Nigeria won the battle of the midfield.
His rating is 6/10
Wilfred Ndidi.
Another superb performance from Wilfred Ndidi in the midfield of Nigeria. His marking ability is world class, hiw long range shot almost added another injury to Iceland , but he needs to improve on his passes.
His rating is 6/10
Oghenekaro Etebo
He had another good game for Nigeria against Iceland in the attacking midfield position. Quick to intercept passes and very difficult to retrieve the ball from his legs. Stoke City FC will be glad that they signed him before the world cup began.
His rating is 6/10.
Victor Moses
Nigerians are yet to see the real Victor Moses in this tournament, although he showed some glimpses of his sublime football with his assist that gave Ahmed Musa the first goal for Nigeria. I hope Moses will come with full armour against Argentina in the last game in Group D.
His rating is 6/10.
Kelechi Iheanacho
It was a surprise that Kelechi Iheanacho started ahead of Odion Jude Ighalo. Iheanacho justified his inclusion in the starting 11 of the team as he troubled the defence of Iceland , combining well with Moses and Musa in the attack.  He started the move that gave Nigeria her first goal .
His rating is 6/10
Ahmed Musa
Musa is playing at home in Russia. The CSKA Moscow attacker scored two great goals to nail the Icelanders . The first was a beauty of a control and a clinical finishing. The second a solo dribbling runs from the left , messmerizing the defenders of Iceland , making the goalkeeper to crawl before he calmly slotted the ball into the roof of the net.
His rating is 8/10
Subs
Tyrone Ebuehi.
He replaced Brian Idowu at the beginning of second half and his inclusion changed the tide in favour of Nigeria . He was able to support the attack very well from his left full back position .He might have made a mistake in the penalty awarded against Nigeria, nevertheless, he had a good game and his performance should condemn Brian Idowu to the bench throughout the tournament.
5/10
Odion Jude Ighalo
The non scoring striker of Super Eagles replaced Kelechi Iheanacho. The difference was clear . Odion lacked pace and the the attack did not really threaten again. He must raise his game for Nigeria or else, he will find himself on the bench all through the game against Argentina.
3/10
Alex Iwobi.
When a player comes into a game on 90th minutes, there is nothing more Iwobi can do than to get a certificate of attendance.
His rating is Certificate of Attendance.
This is my humble submission in the game. I hope the real celebration will come after the game against Argentina .
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment