Share this on WhatsApp



The Lekan Salami Stadium, Adamadingba, Ibadan was enlivened yesterday as the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN), Oyo State Chapter held its maiden Annual Ramadan lecture,National Daily learnt.
The lecture titled: Sporting Activities during Ramadan: Facts and Myths was delivered by the Chief Executive Officer  of Kayrom Lee Gym and Fitness Centre, Alhaja Ambassador Rahamat Romoke Ayinde.Describing sporting activities as the state of being active in one form of sport, exercise or another, adding that human beings need to replenish.
She opined that sportsmen and women need to practice physical activities during the Ramadan period, adding that such activities will not only help in enhancing their performance but would put them in good form to participate in both national and international competition.
“It will be a misnomer for any athletes to off training for a whole month, as such athlete will definitely lose form, hence, training is a continuous exercise for any athlete either Muslim or non Muslim,” she said.
Her words: “During fasting period, your body switches to fat burning mode through the process called fatty acid oxidation. This in essence is the changing of fats in our body from its acidic nature to something positive to our living.”
“One should avoid games like squash, lawn tennis especially any racket games during Ramadan, while eating a balanced diet and taking adequate amount of liquids and carbohydrates are necessary to help maintain a healthy exercise routine during the period,” she enthused.
Earlier in his opening remarks, the Oyo State SWAN Chairman, Niyi Alebiosu, while expressing  happiness at the well attended event, disclosed that the lecture would henceforth be an annual event.
In his on remarks, the Chairman Nigerian Union of Journalists, Oyo State Council, Comrade Adewunmi Faniran lauded the organisers of the lecture and urged the state chapter of SWAN to keep the flag of good governance afloat.Dignitaries present at the occasion were NUJ Secretary, Oyo State Council. Bola Ogunlayi, General manager Shooting Stars Sports Club (3SC), Alhaji Rashidi Balogun and General Manager Oyo State Sports Council, Gboyega Makinde. Veteran Sports Journalist, Ade Somefun and the Chief Executive Officer, Frenage Soccer Academy, Prince Oluwole Olodade were among those in attendance.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment