Share this on WhatsApp



 
Comfort Children Ministry International (CCM), a non-profit organisation with passion to provide assistance to the less privileged children around the world donates relief materials worth thousands of dollars to children in four African countries.

The relief materials were provided to less privileged children in Nigeria, Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo to break the jinx of poverty, address critical needs and to help children achieve their potentials in life.

The Chief Executive Officer and Founder of CCM, Cynthia James during the distribution of the relief materials to children in Ikorodu, Lagos, Nigeria expressed her gratitude to God for the opportunity to assist children.

She noted that hardship have adversely affected the normal growth and intellectual development of a lot of children.

James said according to The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), over 150 million children are living without parents around the world, the outrageous number and the sight of children is enough to
have compassion on them.

Orphans as one of the most vulnerable social categories in the society are faced with high risk of sexual exploitation, hard labour, child trafficking with limited access to education, healthcare and other social amenities.

As a result of these, many of them end up on the streets where they get killed before turning 18 years of age James said.

‘I have passion to assist children in any part of the world, that is why I founded CCM in Liberia in 1999 and incorporated it in the United States of America in 2016 to address critical needs through early intervention for homeless, disabled, orphaned and abused children by providing education, food, clothing and housing’.

We are dedicated to protect the rights of children, provide urgent relief and support for children in distress, provide children on the streets with access to skills to become leaders of tomorrow and increase awareness of the impacts of HIV/AIDS epidemic on children.

Relief materials such as food items, books, clothing materials and many other items were distributed to children at the Upper Room Mission, Satellite Town, Cortina Nursery School, Ikorodu and Kingsfield Nursery and Primary School also in Ikorodu Lagos.

We have also been opportune to reach out to children in the Nigeria, United States of America, United Kingdom, Turkey, Togo, Ghana, Ivory Coast and still planning to reach out to more children in other parts of the world James revealed.

The CEO made known that the project gets a lot of supports from individuals, corporate organisations and lovers of children outside her personal savings which are the major means through which funds are raised for the project.

Also speaking at the occasion, the Proprietress of Cortina Nursery School Ikorodu, Modupe Marcurley appreciates the kind gesture of CCM by saying it will go a long way in putting smile on the faces of the children.

She admonishes CCM to continue the good work and urged people to emulate CCM in assisting less privileged children in the society to raise them above the poverty line.








Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment