Share this on WhatsApp
 
The Boko Haram terrorist group on Thursday reportedly ambushed some soldiers at Pridang – Bitta in Gwoza local government area of Borno, killing five of the soldiers.

Director, Army Public Relations, Texas Chukwu, who confirmed the incident in a statement said the insurgents engaged troops of 271 task force battalion deployed in Operation Lafiya Dole in a gun battle.

He added that while many of them were killed, some escaped with gunshot injuries.

“While on clearance operation along Pridang – Bitta in Gwoza local government area of Borno state, fought through an ambush staged by elements of Boko Haram Terrorists,” the statement read.

“In the firefight that ensued, the gallant troops fought through the ambush, they neutralized several Boko Haram Terrorists, while others fled with gunshot wounds.

“The remains of the deceased personnel have been promptly evacuated to 7 Division Medical Services and Hospital.”

In another related development, more than 25 people were kidnapped along the Birnin Gwari-Funtua road in Kaduna state on Thursday.
 
Sources said the kidnappers struck between Kiryoyi and Maganda villages of Birnin Gwari local government area.

They reportedly stopped vehicles carrying passengers and ordered the people into the bush.

Danladi Duniya, chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) in Birnin Gwari, confirmed the incident in a telephone interview.

“I am not in a position to say precisely the number of people abducted, but they are many.May be 25 or more than that. I cannot not say, but all passengers in the vehicles were abducted,” he said.

“They stopped five vehicles, one of the driver who was driving a gulf car managed to escape. This is what we go through on the road and we are pleasing with the authorities to help us address this problem.

“People cannot go to farm and they cannot travel, this is too bad.”

Aliyu Mukhtar, spokesman of the Kaduna state police command, could not be reached on the telephone for comments.

Bandits have continued to operate in the area despite ongoing military operation.
Last week, 44 passengers travelling in five vehicles were abducted.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment