Share this on WhatsApp








 
Archbishop emeritus of the Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos, Olubunmi Okogie, has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to consider resigning his position following his administration inability to protect lives and properties of Nigerians.

Okogie gave the advice in an open letter titled ‘Dear Mr. President, Call a Spade a Spade’.

He said neither Nigeria nor Nigerians are protected under the watch of the Buhari administration as evident in the killings recorded in the country since he assumed office.

Okogie in the letter said: “Dear Mr. President, we must call a spade a spade. You were elected to protect the land and its people but neither is being protected under your watch.

“Dear President Buhari, I am compelled to write to you again because, since the bloodshed of the first day of this year, there has been more bloodshed in Zamfara State and in the Middle Belt.

“The latest killings in Plateau State make us wonder: where were you, Mr. President, while innocent lives were being wasted in Plateau State? Where were your service chiefs when babies were being ripped out of their mothers’ wombs by men who claim to do so because of their cows?
 
“The number (of Nigerians) killed under your watch, Mr. President, provides more than convincing evidence that the government you lead has failed to secure our lives. You are the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces.
 
“If more than three years into your administration, you have been unable to stop these killings, why don’t you seriously consider the option of an honourable renunciation of the presidential seat?

Okogie further called on Buhari to take drastic measures in ensuring that those found culpable in relation to the killings are made to face justice.

“That is why the point must also be made that those who contravene the laws of Nigeria be brought to book, irrespective of their political, regional, ethnic or religious affiliation. But the sad reality is: under your watch, that is not what is happening.”

“You described what is going on as a clash between herdsmen and farmers. If the identities of these criminals are not hidden, why has the Nigerian intelligence community, under your watch, failed to prevent them from shedding blood?”

Recall that in January, the Archbishop had also advised President Buhari to respect himself by not seeking re-election in 2019 over insecurity in the country.













Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment