Share this on WhatsApp



President Muhammadu Buhari assenting to the “Not Too Young To Run Act” at the State House, Abuja, on May 31, 2018, commended the role young people play in the democracy, politics and national life of Nigeria.
President Buhari who may be using the opportunity to redeem his negative comment on Nigerian youth while on official visit to the United States (US), remarked that the “Not Too Young To Run Bill”, is a landmark piece of legislation that was conceived, championed and accomplished by young Nigerians. He acknowledged that        the coordinators of the Not Too Young To Run movement have established a formidable legacy, which is that, “in our maturing democracy, if you really want to change something in Nigeria, and if you can organise yourselves and work hard towards it – you can achieve it.” He noted: “the outcome of such efforts is this remarkable feat.”
President Buhari further declared: “These efforts have resulted in the heroic task of enshrining in law, a reduction of the minimum age for elective office in Nigeria.
“Eligible age for aspirants for members of the State Houses of Assembly will be reduced from 30 to 25 years;
“Eligible age for aspirants for members of the Federal House of Representatives will be reduced from 30 to 25 years; and
“Eligible age for aspirants for Office of the President will be lowered from 40 to 35 years.”
The President acknowledged that “surprisingly, the age limits for Senators and Governors was not reduced, as originally proposed by the sponsors of this Bill,” assuring that, “This is an issue that may need to be addressed going forward.”
President Buhari subsequently commended the youths that their focus and contributions have now successfully increased the quality and maturity of Nigerian democracy and expanded the playing field for youth participation in politics.
“You, the young people of Nigeria, are now set to leave your mark on the political space, just as you have done over the decades in entrepreneurship, sports, art, media entertainment, technology, and several other fields.
“You are undoubtedly Nigeria’s most important resource – not oil, not agriculture, not solid minerals – but you and all of us. Your energy, intelligence and talent are what will drive and develop Nigeria, long after we are all gone.
“This is an opportunity for me to affirm that this administration will continue to do everything in its power to make Nigeria work for you.
“You may all know that the Bill I just assented now becomes an Act of the National Assembly,” Buhari stated.
The President further remarked: “Thus, it may be tempting for you to think of this as the end of the journey. However, it is only the beginning; there is still a lot of work ahead, towards ensuring that young people take full advantage of the opportunities provided not only by this constitutional amendment but also through Nigeria’s boundless prospects.”
He further counseled the Nigerian youths: “You should inculcate the spirit of self-help. Those who complete their training should not just sit down and wait for government or private sector to employ them. You should be innovative and turn your hands to any legitimate work that will enable you to sustain yourself.
“You may have noticed already that every one of you represents one of our 36 States and the Federal Capital Territory. This is because today is about preparing for the bright future of our country.”
The president expressed his confidence in the Nigerian youths but raised an obstacle against them in requesting they should not join the elections till the 2019 general elections are over. Apparently, the president postpones the opportunities available for the youths till 2023 when he wishes to complete his second term in office.
“I am confident each one of you will transform Nigeria in your own way – whether through media, agricultural enterprise, economists, engineers, or as lawmakers in your States or at Federal levels, or as State Governors – and even someday, as President. Why not?
“But please, can I ask you to postpone your campaigns till after the 2019 elections!” Buhari said.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment