Share this on WhatsApp



OLA AINA: Born and bred in England,Ola Aina represented the home team at various underage levels from 2011 to 2016 before switching allegiance,National Daily learnt.
‘Temitayo’ was pictured alongside Chuba Akpom after a discussion with the Nigeria Football Federation President, Amaju Pinnick in March 2017 and two months later,he pledge his international future and was immediately called up.
Aina is a Chelsea Academy product and has been with the London club since 2007.
The 21-year-old also played for Hull City On-loan recently.
*JOHN OBI MIKEL*: The time of the Chelsea golden generation won’t be complete without the Nigerian midfield maestro.
Mikel alongside Gary Cahill won the Illustrious UEFA champions league title in 2012.
The Super Eagles skipper represented Chelsea from 2006-2017 where he won two Premier League,three FA Cup among others.
’Obinna’ was Named Chelsea Young Player of the Year for 2007 and 2008.
*KENNETH OMERUO* :Defender Kenneth Omeruo was snapped up by Chelsea after a scintillating performance for the Nigeria U-17 team in 2009.
The Abia state born right-footed player has since been loaned five times and has yet to make an appearance for the blues.
*LEON BALOGUN* He has little history with English football as he just put pen to paper for Brighton and Hove Albion few weeks ago and the fans of his new club will have a glimpse of what he’s capable of inside Wembley Stadium.
*KELECHI IHEANACHO*: Super Eagles progidy, Iheanacho will return to the stadium he scored his last professional goal few weeks ago in the colours of Leicester City against Tottenham Hotspurs.
‘Promise’ was captured by Manchester City after taking the world by storm in National colours at Cadet level in 2013 and he won a league cup with the Citizens before moving to the King Power last year.
Raheem Sterling is a familiar player to the ‘young predator’.
*AHMED MUSA*: Pace server,Musa is a Leicester City winger signed with part of the money the Foxes earned from winning the premier league some years ago but he was sent back to a home known as CSKA Moscow after his failure to secure a starting shirt.
An opportunity to say hi to Jamie Vardy and give a reminder to his employers.
*WILFRED NDIDI*: The talented midfielder is a Premier League genius in tackles and he will be on the look out for by scouts of top club sides around Europe.
‘Onyinye’ has won Leicester Young Player of the Season twice consecutively and should hug Harry Maguire in the English capital.
*VICTOR MOSES*: Started his career as a striker but now a defensive X-Factor for Chelsea Football Club.
Victor played the FIFA U-17 World Cup in 2007 as Number 10 for England but he switched international allegiance in 2012.
Ruben Loftus-Cheek will put club affiliation aside to roar like Lion against a soaring Eagle who just lifted the Prestigious FA Cup on the same pitch two weeks ago. West Ham United,Liverpool,Crystal Palace,Wigan Athletic,Stoke City are other clubs he has featured.
*WILLIAM TROOST-EKONG*: Paul had an interesting developmental time in London as a youngster for Tottenham and Fulham.
English Skipper Harry Kane assisted Ekong fill out his registration forms when the Nigerian was a fresh-faced scholar at Tottenham Hotspur.
”He was one of the first guys that sat me down and helped me.
It’s amazing to see how well he has done,” Troost-Ekong told Telegraph UK.
His stock has risen and he will be hoping to prevent former teammate Kane from shaking the net.
*ALEX IWOBI*: The Gooner will be on parade to show his doubters(especially Arsenal supporters) how good to savor freedom.
Iwobi represented the English at various youth levels before flying with the Eagles and at the end of the exhibition,it will be all smile with Danny Welbeck.
Alex Iwobi has enjoyed some glorious moments with Arsenal including the OLDEST trophy popularly know as the FA Cup.
*ODION IGHALO* : Jude is a Watford Legend and will for sure have some opposing fans cheering for him.
The 29-year-old striker projected the Hornets to the top division in 2015 and also won the premier league player of the month award in December of same year.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment