Share this on WhatsApp


Some group of lawmakers under the auspices of Parliamentary Support Group (PSG) loyal to President Muhammadu Buhari say they have started collecting signatures to back the president in the ongoing rift between the executive and national assembly.

The lawmakers also said they stand by their claim that lawmakers in the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) were behind the impeachment threat against Buhari.

The group which also has some senators as its members — had kicked against the threat the national assembly issued Buhari after a joint session of the two chambers.

In a statement on Thursday, Abdulmumin Jibrin, a member of the house who spoke on behalf of the group, said PSG was necessitated because of the “unabated attack on Buhari on the floor of the house.”

“We wish to categorically state that the ongoing taking of signatures of Members in the House of Representatives by the PSG is NOT for the purpose of impeaching the Speaker but to reaffirm our support for Mr President and consolidate his support base in the House,” Jibrin said.

He said while the group has no intention of impeaching Yakubu Dogara, speaker of the house, it is currently collecting the signatures “to reaffirm our support for Mr President and consolidate his support base in the house.”

“For the purpose of emphasis, the statements I signed after the joint Executive session is not in my personal capacity but on behalf of members of the PSG in the Senate and House of Representatives who will address a joint world press conference in due course.”

“While we focus on mobilizing support for Mr. President in the House, we challenge the leadership of the APC caucus in the House of Representatives to stand up and be counted in support of our party, the APC and government. We hope they will do the needful.”

He said the PSG has become necessary because of the unabated attack on Mr. President on the floor of the House. An action that has severally embarrassed the President and portray the APC lead government in bad light.

Dogara alongside Senate President Bukola Saraki are among members of the new-PDP reportedly plotting to dump the All Progressives Congress (APC) over alleged marginalization.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment