Share this on WhatsApp



There has been news flying around that the Nigeria Football Federation board members were busy campaigning for the return of Amaju Pinnick board in the NFF election coming up in September.
It was reported that the campaign was held after Super Eagles lost the first game to Croatia in the Russia 2018 world cup,National Daily learnt.
Immediately after the FIFA World Cup holding in Russia was over for Nigeria due to the Super Eagles exit, the battle is now shifted to the NFF election which is expected to hold in September at Katsina state.
Our findings at the Secretariat of the NFF, revealed that closing of collection and submission of forms is slated for 12 noon on Tuesday 19th June, with as much as twenty seven (27) stakeholders collecting forms and eighteen (18) meeting the submission deadline.
Among those who are likely going to slug it out for the position of President are the incumbent Amaju Pinnick, Aminu Maigari and Taiwo Ogunjobi. There are indications that two others that collected Presidency form which is at Three hundred and fifty thousand (N350, 000.00) may also vie for the position of the number one football person in the country.
Barrister Seyi Akinwumi will slug it out with Barrister Kingsley Obienu who is the Vice Chairman of Anambra State FA. His Chairman in Anambra State Patrick Ifeanyi Ubah has submitted his forms for the position of the Chairman of Chairmen. He (Dr. Ifeanyi Ubah) will slug it out with the incumbent who is the Zamfara State FA Chairman.
The Chairman of the Nigeria National League (NNL) Chidi Offor Okenwa, seems to have decided to jettison his position at the League body to vie as an ordinary member of the FA representing the South East.
He however will have to contend with Abia Warriors Chairman,Chief Emeka Inyama, Chairman Senate Committee on Sports Obinna Ogba, Enyimba International Chairman Felix Anyansi Agwu.
Fresh Ahmed and Suleiman Kwande would have their hands full as they battle the likes of FCT FA Chairman Musa Talle, Chairman Kwara State FA and the Chairman of Plateau State FA as well as Otunba Dele Ajayi of Ekiti state who have also submitted their forms.
National Daily gathered that the Minister of Youth and Sports, Barrister Solomon Dalung has advised the NFF to seek the interpretation of Supreme Court judgement from Attorney General of the Federation, Walter Onhoghen before they continue the sales of election form.
Contrary to his advise, the NFF went ahead with sales and also continue campaigning on the election slated for September 2018 in Katsina state.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment