Share this on WhatsApp


The Mercedes-Benz V-Class combines luxury, utility and performance for customers who want to have an enjoyable driving experience with the functionality of a van that can serve their daily needs for both personal use and work related activities.

While giving more insight into the uniqueness of the car, MD/CEO of Weststar Associates Limited, authorized general distributor of the Mercedes-Benz brand in Nigeria, Mirko Plath said the model is as a result of the international growth strategy of Mercedes-Benz “Vans goes global” with the goal to further extend the business unit’s technology leadership, expand existing brand activities and tap into new growth potential outside the core European markets.

He said customers in Nigeria can now enjoy luxury and utility together in a van as the V-Class is built following the excellent standards of Mercedes-Benz passenger cars and is equipped with a generous amount of interior space to accommodate business and family needs of different customer groups.

The new V-Class comes in three different lines (Standard, AVANTGARDE and EXCLUSIVE) and in addition an exclusive AMG line which comes with refined sportiness.

The standard V-Class line’s exterior design is equipped with16-inch steel wheels, halogen headlamps, a manual tailgate with fixed rear window and four individual seats in the rear. The AVANTGARDE V-Class line’s exterior is equipped with 17-inch light-alloy wheels, a waistline trim strip in chrome, separately opening rear windows, LED intelligent light system and an additional left sliding door.

The EXCLUSIVE V-Class line’s exterior is equipped with 19-inch light-alloy wheels, a panoramic sliding roof, and an “EXCLUSIVE” label on the fender, electric sliding doors and tailgate as well as the AVANTGARDE sports package included.

The modern, generously-dimensioned interior is exemplary in the Multi-purpose Vehicle (MPV) segment both in terms of its ergonomics and its visual and tactile value appeal as well. Design and materials meet the highest standards. This is seen among other features in the media display with a high-quality glass surface or the generously sized trim.

Even more individually, exclusively and sportily the interior of the V-Class can be optionally equipped with the AMG Line and the Interior Design package or with the V-Class EXCLUSIVE and V-Class AVANTGARDE design and equipment lines as well as the AVANTGARDE Interior Design package available for this.
 
With agile performance and high efficiency, the V-Class engine with 7G-TRONIC PLUS automatic transmission impresses with its superior handling characteristics and low fuel consumption. For the Nigerian market the V-Class comes in a vertical in-line 4 cylinder petrol engine with 211hp with an output of 155kW and a peak torque of 350nm – delivering plenty of driving enjoyment, thanks to the new innovations in the engine. 

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment