Share this on WhatsApp
















The unstained killings by Fulani herdsmen in northern Nigeria are taking unpleasant toll in the governance of the zone as well as loss of leadership confidence.
 Governor Abdul’aziz Yari of Zamfara State has been relegated to the level of frustration that he willingly abdicated his recognition and presumed responsibility of the chief Security Officer of Zamfara State in a circumstance that he has no authority of the security operatives which are directly controlled by the federal government.
Accordingly, Governor Yari declared that he has ‘resigned’ his responsibility as Chief Security Officer of Zamfara State, saying that he has no control over the security machinery in the state.
National Daily gathered that Governor Yari explained in Talata-Mafara on Friday that his decision emanated from the helplessness of the state government and the people over recurring killings by herdsmen in the state.
He decried the situation where as the chief security officer of the state, he could not take decisions on strategies for protecting the state and its people, and had it implemented.
The governor declared: “We have been facing serious security challenges over the years, but in spite of being governor and Chief Security Officer of the state, I cannot direct security officers on what to do nor sanction them when they err.
“As Chief Security Officer, the nomenclature in just a name.”
Yari bemoaned that it was disheartening that killings in the state had continued in spite of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s order to security agencies to end the incessant blood-letting across the country.
“Since the president’s order, the killings have not stopped. In a week, there were attacks in this state which claimed over 30 lives,” the governor lamented.
Governor Yari, was said to have, therefore, enjoined the people of the state to be more faithful to God and embark on special prayers over the challenges facing the state.
He also appealed to them to be patient and continue to cooperate with the government and security agencies as steps were being taken to address the challenges.
“We cannot keep quiet while our people are being killed daily. We are going to cooperate with all stakeholders to bring the situation to an end,” he said.





































Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment