Share this on WhatsApp










Party inaugurates State Chairmen in Abuja




All elected State Chairmen of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), in the 36 states of the federation were on Monday inaugurated at the national secretariat of the party in Abuja by the National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, and other party chieftains.
National Daily observed that State Chairmen elected at congresses held by party factions of  Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in  Lagos State; Rotimi Amaechi in Rivers State; Otega Emerhor in Delta; and Oyo State Governor Abiola Ajimobi were inaugurated by Odigie-Oyegun.
Apparently, Chief Great Ogboru and Senator Ovie Omo-Agege’s faction lost out in Delta State. In Oyo State, the Unity Forum, led by Communications Minister, Adebayo Shittu, was out. In Imo State, Rochas Okorocha lost out to the faction controlled by his deputy, Eze Madumere Izunaso and other prominent members of the party in the state.
Odigie-Oyegun, however, directed the state chairmen in Rivers, Taraba, Oyo, Delta, Lagos and Cross River and others to delay swearing in their state executive committees until all issues with their congresses are sorted. Indeed, the high court nullified the state congress in Rivers State.
“There is serious need for quick reconciliation, especially, in Rivers, Taraba, Oyo, Delta, Lagos and others. Let the chairmen here wait and not inaugurate their executives like the others until the issues with the Congresses in such states are resolved. I am going to set up a committee headed by the Deputy National Chairman, North, Sen. Lawali Shuaibu, to study the situation in such states for possible actions. There will be concessions and harmonizations after the exercise within this week,” he said.
Oyegun further declared: “There is serious and immediate need for reconciliation. You have seen states like Oyo, Cross River, Delta, Taraba and even Lagos State. Don’t go back and say ‘we have won’. This is not a winner takes all situation. Political parties are not organised in that way…
“It is something that must be done, and if possible, tidied up way before the National Convention. So that we will have as rancour-free a convention as is possible for any political party. Let me emphasise once more, there is need for reconciliation, give and take, compromise and I hope those sitting here will have the courage and expanse of spirit to embrace those we may think have technically lost out but are still important party members.”
The outgoing APC national chairman, thereafter, enjoi9ned all the new party leaders in the various states to work for the relation of the party in 2019, counseling them to support in projecting what the APC government has achieved in the past three years which is seriously being questioned by Nigerians.



































Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment