Share this on WhatsApp



Facebook is sharing the first updates from its partnership deal with music companies around the world – an agreement aimed at building a foundation for new musical experiences on the platform.
In a statement released today, Tamara Hrivnak, Head of Music Business Development & Partnerships at Facebook and Fred Beteille, Head of Product, Music & Rights at Facebook said, “We’ve been partnering with music companies around the world to bring music to more experiences on Facebook. Today, we are announcing new ways for people to express themselves with music by testing the ability for people to add music to their personal videos and introducing a new feature, Lip Sync Live.”
Facebook’s mission and music share something special — at their core, they both bring people together, enable stories and emotions to be shared, and forge bonds. Together, Facebook and the music industry are bringing the songs you love into the way you express yourself on Facebook, Instagram, Oculus, and Messenger.
Some of the new updates being introduced today are listed below:
SHARE VIDEOS WITH MUSIC ON FACEBOOK
From weddings and holidays to everyday celebrations, the special moments in life are often ones we associate with music. In patnership with the music industry, Facebook is working to enable people around the world to include music in their videos on the platform, opening up more options for creativity and sharing meaningful memories with friends and family. Currently being tested in several markets, it will soon be available more broadly.
LIP SYNC LIVE
Who doesn’t have fun singing along to their favourite songs with friends? Facebook is rolling out Lip Sync Live, which lets you lip sync to songs from forever favourites like “Welcome to The Jungle” by Guns N Roses to new hits like “Havana” by Camila Cabello. Facebook Live enables you bring people into the moment with you as it happens, and with Lip Sync Live, you can express yourself with music from a variety of genres in real time. So whether you prefer songs like “Happier” by Ed Sheeran or “God’s Plan” by Drake, Lip Sync Live lets you bring friends and family into spontaneous musical moments.
To try it out, choose the “Lip Sync Live” option when starting your Live video. After selecting a song from the song list, you can also add a description and customize your video with masks or a background.
When broadcasting with Lip Sync Live, friends will see the artist and song highlighted on the video and can tap to follow the artist on Facebook.
STAY “TUNED” FOR MORE
Facebook is exploring more ways to bring music to the platform. In the coming months, the company will start testing options for adding the music you love to Facebook Stories, and this is just the beginning. Facebook is looking forward to continuing to work with the music industry to create new ways for people to connect and express themselves through music across our family of apps.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment