Share this on WhatsApp



A former governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole, said his national chairmanship of All Progressives Congress (APC) chances have been boosted by support of leaders of the party and governors.
Mr Oshiomhole stated this while fielding questions from journalists in Benin on Friday.
The National Convention of APC will hold on June 23, with no fewer than 6,800 delegates expected to participate.
Mr Oshiomhole said, “I am enjoying the support of APC governors and other party leaders across the nation ahead the June 23 National Convention of the party.
“The reason for this is because they understand my person and because, by the Special Grace of God, if I will emerge through a consensus leadership, my loyalty will be to the party and no more.”
He said if elected, he would deploy his persuasive powers and negotiation skills in resolving the crisis in the party.
“If I have prominent people from the North, prominent people from the South, East, West and the center, no one will say `if not for my support you would not have been there.’
“If you are a product of one section, then you might remain detained by that section.
“But, when you have the privilege of a broad support from many leaders, then no one leader will say I put you there and you must listen to me.
“Let me also say that what is also qualitatively different about this support is that there is no question about what is influencing it.
“This is so, because in our political environment, we hear that those who have the deepest pockets tend to buy the support.
“But, this support is being offered from people who cannot be procured, which tells you that it is flowing from the knowledge of my person, because I have been fortunate to work with all the governors, including past governors.
“Those I did not meet in office, I met them when I was president of the NLC. We had engaged on one-on-one; they know what I stand for.
“So, they offered this support based on their understanding of my person, and not inducement and that makes a difference,” he stated.
Mr Oshiomhole said he was never a dictator as being alleged in some quarters.
He said certain things he learnt in the labour union were negotiations and never dictatorial.
According to him, even though I was the president of NLC, I cannot even control my deputy because he was voted the same manner I was elected.
“In the NLC, you must listen to everybody, unlike in government where as an executive, you can dictate decisions.
“So, what my background prepared me for is to be able to listen, and that is why I kept saying contestation and disputes are not dysfunctional, if you have the skills that I have to manage divergences.
“I have never exercised dictatorial powers. I have always exercised persuasive powers and negotiating skills, and those are my skills.
“And, when I negotiate with you and persuade and you accept, you will feel obliged to do what you have to do.
“But, if I dictate to you, when I am not watching, you will do your heart. So, I am not capable of being a dictator by the very nature of my background,” the former governor said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment