Share this on WhatsApp




The Consumer Protection Council (CPC) has started a special channel for receiving complaints from DSTV customers who are unable to renew their subscription in compliance with a court order.
Recall that a Federal High Court had last month issued an order stopping the implementation of the new increase in tariff across bouquet by MultiChoice on its DTSV customers.
MultiChoice had earlier announced an increase of prices on its digital satellite platform, DSTV which was to take effect from August 1, 2018.
The subscribers on DStv Premium package was expected to see a price increase from N14,700 to N15,800, Compact Plus from N9,900 to N10,650, Compact from N6,300 to N6,800, Family from N3,800 to N4,000, and Access N1,900 to N2,000.
The increase, according to the company, was due to the spike in inflation rates.
Following DStv’s announcement to increase subscription fees, the CPC got an interim injunction from a Federal high court sitting in Abuja, presided over by Justice Nnamdi Dimgba, halting the hike in DSTV subscription by MultiChoice Nigeria Limited.

However, in a statement released by the CPC in Abuja, Director-General of the council, Babatunde Irukera, said the establishment of the special channel is in view of complaints by DStv customers who were unable to renew their subscription at the former bouquet prices as at July 31, 2018.
Irukera gave guidelines on how the council can be reached for a solution should any matter arise regarding DStv subscription fees. According to the CPC boss “any consumer who has, or is experiencing this challenge should please send an email to multichoicecompliance@cpc.gov.ng, stating relevant information.
“The information should include smart card number, name, telephone number, date and time of failed attempt to pay, supporting same with relevant evidence such as a screenshot or document (where necessary).’’
DStv is a Sub-Saharan African direct broadcast satellite service owned by MultiChoice. The PayTV service provides multiple channels and services to over 11.9 million subscribers.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment