Share this on WhatsApp



The Nation Judicial system is gradually taking a back stage if  the words of  Executive Delta state Governor, Senator (Dr.) Ifeanyi Authur Okowa is to be taken seriously,National Daily gathered.
The governor had declared in his office on recently that when he received the illegal Amaju Pinnick led board that the President, Muhammadu Buhari, GCON was right to have ordered their return to office against the Supreme Court ruling.
Okowa maintained that the president had brought back peace to the country by the reason of his purported announcement that the Amaju Pinnick board be returned to office.
Though, recent investigation had shown that the president never made such statement as was affirmed by the minister of Youth and Sports, Solomon Dalung.
The innocent governor who may have been misled by the desperate illegal Amaju Pinnick board noted that the president had done good by putting to an end the leadership crisis in the country.
He was quoted in his speech as saying, “President Buhari’s intervention was in the very best interest of Nigeria, and those of us who appreciate the power and essence of sport will continue to commend him. He saved Nigeria’s image and saved our country from untoward consequences.
The governor who apparently may not have known that by the Supreme Court ruling Amaju Pinnick seizes to be the president of the Nigeria Football Federation noted further, “I insist that Nigeria as a country and those in important positions, as individuals, must make it a duty to constantly promote, project and encourage our own shining stars, our best materials.
The President of NFF, Mr. Amaju Melvin Pinnick is a shining star of this country who has attained a position (1st Vice Presidency of CAF) that no other Nigerian before him has attained. We have a responsibility to project and promote him to reach even higher heights.
It is pathetic to know that the number one citizen of Delta state who had swore to promote the rule of law in his state and Nigeria by extension could be so misled to support a group that the highest court in the land, the Supreme court had thrown out.
Apparently, his public support came on  a day that the Amaju Pinnick board were dealt a big blow at the High court in Jos when they failed in their attempt to vacate the enforcement Order given to Ambassador Chris Giwa on the 5th of June this year.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment