Share this on WhatsApp



 
Two Nigerians have been shot dead in a renewed attack on foreigners in South Africa. The latest deaths have increased the death toll of Nigerians in the former apartheid enclave to 122 in 30 months.
The latest Nigerians to lose their lives in the crime-prone nation were identified as Mr Okechukwu Chukwumezeriri and Mr Olushola Ayanleye.
The President of the Nigerian Union in South Africa (NUSA), Mr. Adetola Olubajo, gave the information in a statement on Friday in Abuja.
Olubajo said that Chukwumezeriri, 39, from Imo was shot dead on a football field on Aug. 25 at Rietondale Park in Pretoria.
He said that Ayanleye, 42, from Ondo State was also shot dead in the night of Aug. 26 at Essellen Street, Sunnyside in Pretoria.
“Information gathered revealed that last weekend’s violence which claimed two lives with another two hospitalised in Pretoria were gang-related killings.
“As the umbrella organisation of Nigerians in South Africa, our stand is that whoever that kills should face the full wrath of the law, irrespective of his or her nationality.”
Olubajo said that NUSA was currently cooperating with law enforcement agencies in South Africa to tackle the criminal elements.
“We advise that whoever has information about these killers should kindly contact the president of NUSA or the police as these senseless and trigger happy fellows should not go unpunished.”
He warned “attention seekers’’, whom he said, were using people’s lives to gain popularity and promote personal interest by feeding government officials with wrong information to desist as such would not help to resolve crisis.
“We are always firm in our belief and resolution that all criminals should be treated the same, irrespective of nationality. Nigerians killing Nigerians should not be viewed as different from Nigerians being killed by other nationalities.
“Government officials should also take seriously these senseless killings of Nigerians in South Africa by not building or promoting narratives that it is ok for Nigerians to kill themselves.
“All cases of murder should be treated with all the contempt it deserved and play down on the divisive strategies which is currently claiming lives of our people at alarming rate.”
Olubajo warned people whom he said, tended to claim political gain from the recurring killings to desist from such wickedness.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment