Share this on WhatsApp



 
“Almost almost I would have been happy to even draw, however I’m happy to have won in Verona in the 93rd minute, because he made everyone understand that we need to ride”. Live sincerity: on the eve of the match against Lazio, Massimiliano Allegri unbuttoned a little on training and men, however, beats a lot on a concept already gutted in after the race in the championship debut: need sacrifice. “I know only one word: to do – explained the Juventus coach – We have to beat Lazio and we have to work hard for Lazio, Lazio are well-trained, with quality and physicality, they beat us first in the season and then beat us at the Stadium after 41 useful victories, even if we are only at the beginning it is an important race for the rest of the championship, and I would like to not concede a goal after the two taken at Bentegodi “.
DUBBIO MODULO – The goal of the coach is to keep attention. Also for this reason, perhaps, he throws smoke on the eleven who will choose tomorrow: “Dybala and Mandzukic – they can play either one or two, who has entered the bench in Verona has been decisive, the games are played now. playing three, Bonucci takes dedication and passion like everyone else, should be judged on the field and respected for what he does.Matuidi has a good condition, I think he continued to run even on vacation: he raises the pressure and gives intensity. a lot of enthusiasm and quality, It can do everything, striker, outside and I tried it on the trocar, I have a lot of points, it has grown under the character and technical aspect and this will lead to a great career. effects, but must work on the defensive phase.Alex Sandro is another player compared to last year but must demand more from himself “.
RONALDO AND SOLIDITY – Everything is open, therefore, from 4-2-3-1 of the start in Verona to 4-3-3 of the second half up to 3-5-2. One certainty, however, is called Cristiano Ronaldo: “Soccer is knowledge, the more you pass the ball the more the players know each other, there will certainly be improvements with Lazio, but Ronaldo still has 6 goals with Chievo. be more awake on the rebuttal.It may happen that he goes on the bench and then play half an hour.Will have to catch him, he has had an excellent management in Madrid.It now plays, then we will see.Everyone should be exploited for its characteristics, it is true that Sometimes I like to do extravagant things, but I think simplicity is the best thing: I have to make choices, if we win we accept more and in any case they are always unpopular Ronaldo always puts himself in question, is very competitive, an excellent example and raises the bar.It has brought great enthusiasm to Italian football, but we have to normalize ourselves, because in the end we only have to win the games, we need to score 88-90 points to get first in the championship. it happened in Verona we have to make the antennas stand up. We took two goals, my feelings Saturday were not good when the ball came back from our side. We need a different solidity “.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment