Share this on WhatsApp



It was an extremely emotional moment when Mr and Mrs Afor Ogidi welcomed their 4-year-old baby Elo 48 days after she was stolen from a Church Service. More remarkable was when the overly excited Elo was received by the President Believers Loveworld Inc., Rev Dr. Chris Oyakhilome, yesterday, even as tears of overwhelming joy flowed freely from the eyes of the parents.
The Man of God who was visibly elated said: “Your act of faith is remarkable. When I saw the videos of all your prayer sessions at home, it was a demonstration of faith. Most of the time, they will tell you, when children are stolen they are never found. So this is a wonderful miracle, a wonderful miracle.”
He added: “Thank you for putting the word of God to work and for being an inspiring example to others. This child is so beautiful; Lord we thank you for your grace, love and mercy. Thank you for this wonderful blessing and amazing testimony.”
In a related post on the Pastor Chris Live Global Prayer Network via his KingsChat (a leading global social networking and inspirational platform) handle today Pastor Chris as he is fondly called said: Thanks to all of you who prayed along with us, and the Ogidi family, when little 4yr old Elo was kidnapped; stolen, from us, almost two months ago. The Lord delivered her, and has restored her back to us. Glory to God evermore. Many thanks to the Pastors and members of CELVZ and our Security personnel for their prayers, faith and tireless efforts and of course, the amazing faith of Elo’s parents: Afo and Rita Ogidi. Congratulations.“

After nearly two months of frantic search and fervent prayers National Daily authoritatively reported that Elo Ogidi was found. The four-year-old went missing during a church service in Lagos.
Elo was left in the care of her minder during the church’s children thanksgiving service on the day she went missing.
The Officer-in-Charge of the Anti-Kidnapping Unit, Lagos Police Command, Bulus Musa, had confirmed the incident as a case of kidnapping and promised to investigate it.
National Daily gathered from impeccable sources that she was found in Benin City, Edo State Capital, in an Orphanage (names withheld).
Men and officers of the Police who accompanied the Church’s Security cordoned off the area before moving in at about 4.30pm to conduct a search on the kids in the orphanage during which Elo was identified with the photos sent by her parents. Her pictures were immediately taken after she was located and sent to the head of the Church’s Security who equally confirmed the identity.
The photos showed a happy Elo with a low cut in dirty clothes, against the cleaner, nicely made hair she wore before she went missing.
It was further disclosed that as soon the parents arrived in Lagos a video call was initiated between them and the police to ascertain the authenticity of the claim, during which Elo even identified her parents and sibling, and that convinced the police who have requested that the parents come to physically identify their child.
“So we were in Ghana this morning, A4 was with me. Suddenly he got a message from a woman who sent him a picture asking if that was his daughter and that she saw Elo in an orphanage in Benin. She gave the name of the orphanage and the address. Immediately he took up phone and called our security head in Lagos and gave him all the details as the lady gave us. He said we should give him an hour and he alerted a team of the Church Security in Benin. In collaboration with Edo Police Command operatives they immediately rounded up the place and found Elo in the said orphanage. Of course we got on the plane and headed straight for our security head’s office. There we made a video call to Benin where the commissioner of police put Elo on the call. Elo screamed in ecstacy when she saw her parents and her older sister Treasure…. she identified all of them while jumping happily and even told A4 “daddy they barbed my hair”. Praise God she’s found.” Said PU a close friend of the family on Kingschat a leading social networking platform.
He added: “Friends and family have been calling in and celebrating this miracle of God giving God praises and worship.”
“I join the host of the heavenly to worship the one who lives and never dies…To appreciate him on behalf of OGIDI family and Christ Embassy Nation for the mighty miracle (deliverance) he wrought in the life of ELO OGIDI.
Our hearts are full of joy, thank you so much oh Lord our God, none to be compared to you.
With a grateful heart we lift our hands to you declaring that you reign,” posted another friend.
As the Police launches manhunt for suspects in this child theft case, National Daily will continue to follow this story to keep our reading public informed.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment