Share this on WhatsApp



 
Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, Chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum, leading a delegation of APC Governors in the company of Governors of Katsina, Kebbi, Kano and Niger States, including some members of the National and State assemblies and commissioners, on courtesy visit to President Muhammadu Buhari in Daura, Katsina State, on Thursday, praised President Buhari for his great efforts in the keeping Nigeria together through visionary leadership.
National Daily gathered that the Imo Governor maintained that President Buhari had remained focused and unshaken by situations and circumstances in the country, stating: “it shows that your administration is approved by God.”
Okorocha had declared: “we are here to encourage you to keep doing what you are doing you as Nigerians are very very pleased with you.
“We also want to inform you that we had wonderful and peaceful Sallah celebration across the country because of security of lives and property you have guaranteed in our nation.”
President Muhammadu Buhari, however, noted that the combined efforts of defectors and their backers in the opposition will not distract his administration from the good work it is doing for the benefit and development of Nigeria.
The President had maintained that the ruling APC has the full understanding of Nigeria’s challenges and is encouraged by the support of Nigerians in addressing them.
Buhari had declared: “We are always encouraged when all our constituents are happy with the work we are doing and our genuine efforts to make sure that what we campaigned for in 2015 is still very much in our minds and we have not lost focus.
“In terms of security, economy and the fight against corruption we have maintained focus. Even the opposition with all their resources cannot fault our identification of Nigeria’s priorities and the efforts being made to better them.
“We will continue to do what we ought to do in the leadership position God has placed us and we thank the constituents for the support.”
President Buhari also reiterated: “for those who have decided to change camp for whatever reason, we wish them good luck.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment