Share this on WhatsApp




By Alex Olise
Whistle blowers who have been giving out tangible information to government agencies to track looted funds have stop such gesture for many reasons.
National Daily gathered that parts of the reasons information on looted public funds will no longer be expose to government include the failure of the federal government through its finance ministry to fulfill the paying of certain percentage approved to be given to anyone who give first hand information that will lead to recovery of looted funds which were stolen from public fund
Top security source disclosed to National Daily, that people are no longer interested to release tangible information to the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) one of the government agencies saddled with recovery of funds due to betrayal of revealing identities of information providers.
This also puts the individuals at risk as those involved in the looting of the funds are highly placed individuals in the country who can use any means to fight back at the whistle blowers for exposing their dirty deals.
A top source from the EFCC, disclosed to National Daily, that there were reports of threat to both officials of the agency and some whistle blowers after some billions of naira and foreign currencies were recovered in a building at Ikoyi area of Lagos state.
The huge sums were link to a former top government official who held a sensitive post during the last administration under President Goodluck Jonathan.
National Daily, investigation revealed that threat calls were made to some individuals and security operatives after some huge amounts were recovered at different locations across the country linked to past government officials majority had served under the past regime.
A top EFCC source told National Daily, that the agency still need more information to  track some looted funds and need the assistance of the public.
Reacting on the issue the Force Public Relation Officer (FPRO) Jimoh Moshood an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) said the police will continue to keep information secret and protect the information provider.
He urged members of the public to give tangible information that could lead to looted fund recovery for the interest of the nation and in keeping with already establish goals and objectives of the president Mohammadu Buhari regime in its quest to stamp out corruption across the country.
Recently one of the whistle blowers involved in the billions of naira recovered in Ikoyi Lagos drag the Minister of Finance Kemi Adeosun to President Buhari through a petition over the ministry failure to release the money due to him as agreed.
A security expert Mr. Tim Edem who spoke to National Daily, said the failure of government to keep to promise on the percentage as agree will definitely affect the ongoing fight against corruption in the country.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment