Share this on WhatsApp














The leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) still threatens to sanction the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, even after he had dumped the party for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Accordingly, APC National Working Committee (NWC) issued query to Senate President Saraki ordering him to respond within 48 hours why disciplinary action should not to be taken against him for breaching article 21 of the APC constitution.



Saraki had announced his defection from APC with his associates and supporters to the PDP on Tuesday before the party leadership issued the query.
National Daily gathered that APC NWC, in a resolution signed by the National Secretary, Mai Maila Buni, indicated that there are allegations that Saraki flouted the laws of the party with his activities and would be sanctioned if the allegations are proven to be correct.
The query reads: “You encouraged and facilitated by providing an enabling environment for the defection of some senators who are members of the APC to the other opposition Parties.
“That you have deliberately refused to screen nominees for appointments submitted by Mr. President who are members of the party from being confirmed by the senate. This has caused untold embarrassment and ridicule to the party and the government.
“That you have organized a public rally in your state where members of the party urged you to decamp to PDP. That as a follow up to the above the Kwara State Governor who is known to be your staunch supporter had made public pronouncements suggesting that he will decamp from the party as an indicator to your formal defection.
“That you used the office of the Senate President to cause avoidable delays in the budgetary process and passage of the appropriation act into law, thereby, frustrating the implementation of the party’s manifesto and programs and frustrating the APC led Federal Government in the actualization of the campaign promises of the party.
“Converting the Guest House of the Senate President to meeting points and presiding over anti APC activities in the Guest House and encouraging defection of senators from the party and presiding over such meetings and compiling a list of the said defectors, including some without out their consent.
“Procuring joint letter of decampees from the APC and reading same on the floor of the senate including some who did not accede to defecting thereby causing embarrassment to the party. In spite of the efforts to address grievances to reconcile aggrieved members, you worked against the process and encouraged the formation of an association which sought to impersonate and pass off the name of the party.”














Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment