Share this on WhatsApp

And Facebook won’t forget




A Facebook account, Denike, recently recounted her story about a live situation that rekindled her hope for humanity. Apparently she was driving in lagos when she saw a ‘Gala Hawker’ giving out rolls of the snack he trades. The receivers were prisoners who were being transported to Ikoyi Prison via the Prison Force Van. She was amazed by the kind gesture of this ordinary Nigerian.
Here is her account of the story:
“I witnessed something incredible & humbling today. Just shows that you don’t need to be rich, or have a lot of money to be charitable. Driving past Lagos House/Marina exit, there was this Nigeria Prison Force van heading to Ikoyi Prison stuck in traffic (as usual), with the prisoners in it shoving their hands through the vents of the van & shouting inaudible stuff.
“Then I noticed this Gala seller shoving Gala into the tiny peeking fingers of the prisoners, one by one. As the traffic started moving, he ran across the road, put his basket on the curb, grabbed a handful of Gala and ran back to the Prison van. At this point, he’s running alongside the van, just shoving Gala into the van through the tiny bars. Even the Warden benefited. I was in awe!!! He couldn’t even see prisoners, just those fingers!
“As traffic freed up & he walked back to his ware on the curb, I had to stop him, & asked if they paid for the Gala, thinking the Warden might have paid. He said no, he just gave they because they were begging for help, that they were hungry. I could believe it. So how many Gala did you give them? He said he didn’t know, he was just giving them, not counting how many!
“Here was a poor street hawker, giving away half his wares, because random people he did know needed help and were hungry!! So what is your excuse??? I wish I had more money on me at that moment…. I pray I see him again tomorrow. I pray that poor Gala hawker will always find help at his point of need, and food whenever he his hungry, just as he met the need of those prisoners today.copied from Denike Ajitena, Little things that rekindle my faith in Humanity”.
Denike story has since been shared and liked severally by many.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment