Share this on WhatsApp

As Atiku meets with Tambuwal




The President of the Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, after his consultation meeting former President Ibrahim Babangida at the weekend in Minna, Niger State, extended his consultation to former President Olusegun Obasanjo in Abeokuta, Ogun State, on Monday.
National Daily gathered that Senate President Saraki arrived at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL) at about 5.27p.m, after which they held the meeting behind closed doors in about one and a half hours.
Senate President Saraki had indicated to the media that he was in Abeokuta on courtesy visit to former President Obasanjo because he missed the official opening of the multi -billion dollar project of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library. Saraki acknowledged that the Library is a beautiful edifice that all Nigerians should be proud of.
Senate President Saraki was said to have departed the premises at about 7.12pm.
The visit was the second to former Nigerian leaders made by Saraki in one week after the invasion of the National Assembly by the State Security Service (SSS). He had held a World Press Conference on Wednesday where he accused the executive of sending DSS operatives to barricade the National Assembly.

“You know I missed the official opening of the library and that is why I have decided to come and see the place and honestly it is beautiful. We are very proud of what he has done here,” Saraki had stated of the Obasanjo Library.

Visiting former Head of State, retired General Ibrahim Babangida in Minna, Niger State last Wednesday, Saraki had tweeted to explain his mission: “Dropped in to pay my respects to General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida. Always happy to be with a father and leader.”

Meanwhile, the consultation is expected to continue across the country as negotiations for the Peoples Democratic Party presidential ticket are in top gear.
National Daily gathered that Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State is also holding consultations with former Vice President Atiku Abubakar on the other divide.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment