Share this on WhatsApp



The officers and men of the Armed Forces have been enjoined to be diligent and loyal in their services to the nation.
The advice was given at the weekend by the outgoing commandant  of Nigerian Armed Forces Resettlement Centre (NAFRC) Oshodi Lagos, Air Vice Marshal Augustine Jekennu during his formal pulling out ceremony held at the centre Parade ground.
The retired officer used the occasion to also implore the personnel of the armed forces not to relent in adding value as they serve their father land.
Reflecting on his 37 years of service to the nation, the former NAFRC boss thank the Chief Of Air Staff Air marshal Sadiq Abubakar for giving him the opportunity to serve as commandant of the centre which seems like the apex cake of his career in the Nigerian Air Force.
The former commandant said, “I urge you to uphold the lessons from my time in uniform about loyalty, trust, responsibility, duty and judgment as your guiding principles as you continue in the service of our fatherland and eventually fade into retirement”.
He was honoured with a colourful parade from personnel of the three Armed Forces comprising the Army, Navy and Air Force.
He also recalled the challenges he met when he assumed office December 2016 as the centre commandant.
Most of the challenges ranges from electric power supply, obsolete workshops, training aids, dilapidated infrastructure and accommodation but all this where taken care of through the support of NAFRC community.
In an interview National Daily, he said thanks go to the Federal Government for providing the needed resources that enable him to complete some project which today has transformed the centre.
“I must say that I was a great beneficiary of the changed agenda under the current administration.”
Speaking at the occasion the present commandant of Nigerian Armed Force Resettlement Centre Air vice Marshal Abubakar Liman described the outgoing commandant as “an accomplish gentleman” who have served diligently to the Nigerian nation, he also presented a souvenir to the out going commandant on behalf of the centre .
The event ended with the formal pulling out where the outgoing commandant and his wife mounted on top of a ceremonial vehicle tied with two ropes and senior officers  holding the ropes right and left draw the vehicle gently accompanied by well wishers and military personnel and were escorted out of the gate to mark his last assignment as military man who have now been transformed into full civil life.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment