Share this on WhatsApp



 
The race to acquire the latest smartphone among Nigerians cut across all ages the reason for this trend has been attributed to several factors – this includes luxury, taste, ease of usage, price; for the tech-savvy, speed, storage space, camera capability, speaker, processor type, etc.
In this tech war, Techno, Infinix, Gionee, Nokia, Itel, ZTE, Innjoo, HTC, Wiko, Motorola, Solo are on the conservative strata while iPhone and Samsung are on the luxury end.
While all the brands are strive to gain market share, individual brand preference is influenced majorly by the consumers ‘pocket size’. And this is where the Techno brand beat others.
Information obtained from a store shows an average of 48 persons walks out with a Tecno product in hand per day. The reason hinges on affordability, followed by optimal functionality (camera quality, battery span, and operating system).
A chat with a lady who simply identified herself as Happiness described the sales of Infinix, Tecno, Itel as “pure water”. This suggests the three have the largest market share in the space. The price of these smartphones ranges from as little as N25, 000 to as exorbitant as N450, 000.
On enquiry about iPhone and Samsung smartphones, dealers couldn’t objectively pin a reason for customer’s preference over their conservative counterpart.
However, it can be said majorly, that a customer will walk out with either a Samsung or iPhone based on his/her purchasing power. The least product on Samsung rack goes for N37, 500 which is the Samsung Grand Prime Pro, on the other hand, the Samsung Galaxy Note 9 pegs at N318, 900.
A quick walk to the iPhone stand reveals variant products with the company’s flagship, iPhone X which is worth N369, 000 in the open market.
Why a sizeable number of end users settle for the duo is because of the quality attributed to the productivity achieved by either Samsung or iPhone. This is in terms of durability, finesse and glossy interface.
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment