Share this on WhatsApp



Senator George Akume has continue to express regrets for making Samuel Ortom Governor of Benue State in 2015. The Senator decried that Ortom refused to pay salaries of the State Civil Servants and failed to complete any project in the state. Akume furiously declared that Ortom is the biggest failure in the governance of Benue State.
Accordingly, Akume regretting, declared that Ortom is a Devil, lamenting: “I picked Samuel Ortom from gutter and made him Governor but he has paid me with evil.”
Akume in Makurdi further declared: “After he has purposely refused to pay workers, he has decamped to PDP because he knows it’s only PDP that can harbour his caliber of person.
“Ortom is the biggest failure, he has spent over three years in that office without constructing Gbajimba road despite receiving hundreds of billions from the federation accounts, isn’t it a shame?
“Similarly, he always go about deceiving people that I am responsible for his failure but tell me now that he has decamped to PDP, has he reinstated the thousands of local government workers who were sacked? Has the accumulated salary arrears owed to workers been paid? Has he paid pension arrears?”
The Senator vowed that “Ortom will never have peace and rest because he has sin against God.”
Senator also stated after failing Benue People, Ortom wants to use propaganda to win re-election; “everyday Buhari and herdsmen”. Akume noted that in Borno State where Boko Haram are killing people in high numbers, Governor Kashim Shettima is not owing workers, he has not sacked any worker and he has commissioned many projects.
“I want all of you to take note of one thing, as far as I am concerned, Ortom is not going to win any election in 2019. Benue is not Banana Republic. Let me assure you that the coming elections will be free and fair, even primary elections in all the political parties will be credible and those who are not on ground will lose,” Akume declared.
He assured the people of Benue that President Muhammadu Buhari will soon be in the state to mobilise the people’s support for the 2019 elections.
The Senator appealed to the people to support Buhari. “Don’t allow anybody to use his name to cover his failure, he has done many good things in Benue, for instance, N-power program and school feeding program,” AKume declared.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment