Share this on WhatsApp



Jose Mourinho remains committed to Manchester United amid uncertainty over his position at the club.
The Portuguese is determined to continue with United, who were shambolic in their 3-2 defeat by Brighton on Sunday, and has no intention of quitting such an eminent club.
Mourinho’s name was chanted loudly by United’s away following at the Amex Stadium, where the United manager repeatedly raised his hand to thank them and applauded their support. Fans on the Red Issue main forum have provided additional backing for Mourinho by arranging for a plane banner to protest against the club’s Glazer family owners and executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward. A message that reads ‘ED OUT – LUHG’ is scheduled for a flyover against Burnley at Turf Moor on September 2.
United failed to secure two priority transfer targets in the summer and Mourinho was frustrated by a lack of face-time with Woodward during their turbulent pre-season tour. Mourinho had asked for a sit down with Woodward in the United States but was informed the United chief was ‘busy’ ahead of the August 9 transfer deadline. Woodward attended United’s first and last tour matches in the United States in Phoenix and Miami and was filmed hurriedly catching up with Mourinho in the Hard Rock Stadium tunnel after the win over Real Madrid.
Mourinho was mystified by suggestions he had United’s full backing in a window where the club spent just £73.2m on three signings, which was £67.7m down on their expenditure a year ago. Liverpool recruited four new players at a cost of £176.7m and Mourinho commended Jurgen Klopp’s aggressive approach in Los Angeles.
The MEN was told the United board vetoed some of Mourinho’s recommended options on account of ‘short-termism’ and the club was reluctant to go with the post-Neymar market inflation. Toby Alderweireld, Willian and Ivan Perisic are all 29 and United only signed the 29-year-old Alexis Sanchez in a January swap deal.
Mourinho and the United hierarchy were also split over Anthony Martial’s future as the club refused to cut their losses of a 22-year-old they invested up to £57million in three years ago. The failure to offload Marcos Rojo and Matteo Darmian partly contributed to United missing out on Tottenham’s Alderweireld and Juventus left-back Alex Sandro.
United’s squad is expected to be bolstered by the returns of Nemanja Matic and captain Antonio Valencia against Tottenham on Monday. Sanchez could also return from injury.
Europe is looking for a new king after Real Madrid’s dominance of recent years. Their top rivals have made use of the summer market to improve their squads and make the Champions League even more exciting than usual.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment