Share this on WhatsApp



A faction from the combined forces of the Coalition of Nigerian Movement (CNM) and African Democratic Congress (ADC), spmintered off on Tuesday, causing a setback for the mega conspiracy against the APC and its likely flagbearar President Muhammadu Buhari.
The breakaway faction christened itself New African Democratic Congress (N-ADC), according too Precious Elekima, protem national chairman of the group, who made the announcement at a news conference in Abuja.
Elekima said the group withdrew from ADC because it did not want to be a party in the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP).
He regreted that the ADC leadership joined the CUPP without consulting stakeholders.
Elekima said the formation of the N-ADC will keep alive the mission of the original ADC to free Nigeria from backwardness.
He said CNM, which he claimed now had at least five million members across the country, was formed after the publication of the open letter by former President Olusegun Obasanjo in January 2018.
By joining the alliance, the ADC has betrayed Obasanjo who has always discredited the PDP and tthe APC.
Elekima said without collecting any money from the former president or any of his associates, Nigerians organised themselves from the wards to state level, toiled and sacrificed towards salvaging the country.
“These teeming Nigerians believed in the good intentions as set out in the clarion call so meekly embraced by the ADC.
“Suddenly, without any consultation with the party chairmen and stakeholders in the 36 states and Abuja, the ADC was taken into a place for unholy intimacy with the PDP.
“As if that was a small matter, defectors from the APC were also called in to take part in this unholy political orgy clothed as memorandum of understanding for the CUPP on July 16.’’
The N-ADC chairman said with respect to Obasanjo, Nigerians and the international community were not informed about cleansing in APC and PDP, to certify fit for ADC to be in alliance with them.
He said Nigerians cannot be fooled as ADC has become just another vehicle for recirculation of the people that were common problem of the nation.
“Since majority of the members in the ADC never set out to deceive Nigerians, it has become necessary for the sake of these innocent members and the hope held for Nigerians that we step out of the ADC,” he said.
“We are, therefore, happy and proud to announce that these gallant Nigerians who believe in the Third-Force for Nigerians have now constituted themselves out from the former ADC as the New–ADC.
“We call on members of ADC nationwide, the CNM and all progressives to rally round the N-ADC as we set out on a mission to free Nigerians from their slave masters.”
Elekima, who was Coordinator of CNM in Rivers, apologised to Nigerians, saying his group was not part of decision to join CUPP.
He disclosed the factional group had already written the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to notify it of the formation of N-ADC, with temporary national secretariat in Maitama, Abuja.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment