Share this on WhatsApp












The crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna State persists without restraint as Governor Nasir El-Rufai battles desperately to frustrate Senator Shehu Sani, representing Kaduna Central in the National Assembly, out of the party. The state party under the leadership of the governor on Thursday placed Senator Sani on indefinite suspension.
National Daily gathered that Senator Sani was suspended in the Tudun-Wada North APC, even after he pledged his loyalty to the party when APC senators visited President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House after the mass defection of APC lawmakers in the National Assembly.
APC Tudun-Wada North LG Chairman, Ibrahim Salisu Togo, in a statement, indicated that the decision to suspend the senator was based on the constitution of the party.
“We, the Tudun Wada North (Ward 6) Exco of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Kaduna South Local Government Area wish to affirm our decision on the indefinite suspension of Senator Shehu Sani.
“This affirmation was informed by the need for updating the general public and the good people of Kaduna State regarding our collective resolve.
“We make bold to say that our decision was based on the provisions of the constitution of our great party. Therefore, Senator Shehu Sani remains suspended. In all fairness to the party and Kaduna State voters, the only pre-condition for lining this suspension on Senator Shehu Sani is for the lawmaker to openly apologize to the leadership of our great party for his various acts of misconduct and disrespectful attitudes towards both his constituents, party leadership and his vicious media attacks against our amiable President, Muhammadu Buhari.
“He should also apologize to the Government and people of Kaduna State for frustrating the $350 million loan meant to develop the State in the areas of Education, Healthcare delivery, Works and Housing, Women and Youth Empowerment among others.
“We cannot justify the pain to which the disappointed voters of Kaduna State have been subjected by the Senator’s uncooperative and selfish attitude over the World Bank loan.
“We wish to also seize this opportunity to stress our allegiance and respect for the leadership of our great party at all levels. We also identify fully with the developmental strides of Governor Nasir El-Rufai-led administration in many areas, especially infrastructure,” Togo declared.

































Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment