Share this on WhatsApp



 
Former governor of Akwa Ibom state, Godswill Akpabio and his political son, Udom Emmanuel, are at loggerheads following the fomer’s defection to the All progressives Congress (APC) recently from the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP).
The dirty fight came to the fore when the governor sacked two commissioners for allegedly going to the airport to receive Akpabio when he visited the state sometimes ago prior to his defection.
Akpabio had described  Udom Emmanuel as a mistake that must be corrected in 2019.
Speaking at a rally in Ikot Ekpene at the weekend, Akpabio said Emmanuel was “the greatest mistake he made in a hurry” and he asked to be forgiven.
“Udom is a mistake that must be corrected in 2019. All hands must be on deck to ensure that the mistake is corrected for a people-oriented leadership under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) at the centre,” he said.
He alleged that Emmanuel’s administration had failed the people and this has forced him to take decisive actions to correct “the anomaly for posterity to be fair on him”.
Akpabio said hunger and deprivation had risen in the state since Emmanuel assumed power, saying it was time for “holistic action to liberate the state from the shackles of bad governance”.
Responding to allegations by Akpabio on Monday that Emmanuel was a mistake for the state, the governor fired back, saying his achievements in the last four years in office shows that he was not a mistake.
Responding through Charles Udoh, his commissioner of information, the governor said Akpabio has mortgaged his conscience and is now attempting to deceive Akwa Ibom people.
“I doubt if there is any first term governor in Nigeria who has recorded this level of achievement. Godswill Akpabio spent eight years as commissioner under Obong Attah; spent eight years as governor at the height of the state’s income receipts from the federal government yet he couldn’t complete Uyo-Ikot Ekpene road (the road to his village) despite appropriating almost all the sums budgeted for the project.
“Godswill also commissioned an uncompleted building with rented furniture and fitting and called it 4 Points Sheraton Hotel. Udom has, as at today, facilitated the setting up of more than nine industries in just three years; Godswill spent eight years with zero industry
“It’s unfortunate that Akpabio has mortgaged his conscience and is now attempting to deceive Akwa Ibom people. Akwa Ibom people are wiser.”
Emmanuel had served under Akpabio as secretary to the state government.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment