Share this on WhatsApp



The Deputy Governor of Kano State, Professor Hafiz Abubakar, finally resigned from the Kano State Government on Saturday after about one week of political intrigues over earlier reports of his resignation and his subsequent denials. At the time of this report, National Daily gathered that the resignation letter of the Deputy Governor was on the table of the Governor, Dr. Umar Ganduje. The deputy governor cited disrespect for his office and antagonism by the governor as reasons for his resignation.
The deputy governor is on his way to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to join his political principal, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, who dumped the APC on Tuesday, July 22, 2018, the day the ruling party lost 42 lawmakers in the National Assembly.
The Kano State Deputy Governor was reported to have resigned last Wednesday but on Thursday he refuted the resignation report, though, with a caveat that he will soon decide his political future.
National Daily gathered that the earlier defection report on the deputy governor last week originated from a statement by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which listed the Kano State Deputy Governor on the welcome list of the party while welcoming Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State, who defected from the APC to the PDP last week.
Abubakar, debunking the defection report, had however, admitted that he would take a decision on his political future at an appropriate time when he had concluded consultations with relevant stakeholders.
Professor Abubakar had declared: “I have not resigned; I am still the deputy governor of Kano State. I am currently in Abuja attending an official function, that is the National Council of Education meeting.
“I will take decision on my political future at an appropriate time after due consultation with my political leaders.”
Abubakar, it will be recalled, had petitioned the Inspector General of Police and State Security Service (SSS) on July 30, claiming threat to his life by Governor Abdulahi Umar Ganduje and plans by the state government to stage rally against him.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment