Share this on WhatsApp

Insists on free, fair, transparent political process




The British High Commission has condemned  the invasion of the National Assembly by the State Security Service (SSS), in the early hours of Tuesday, insisting that the British Government  would only accept a democratic process that recognizes the rights of Nigerians to participate in election process.

















 National Daily gathered that Joe Abuku, image maker of the UK High Commission in Abuja,  in a statement Tuesday afternoon, declared: “We are aware of media reports of a situation at the National Assembly this morning. We are closely monitoring the situation and other political developments in Nigeria.“The United Kingdom supports a process whereby the people of Nigeria can exercise their democratic right to vote and be voted for. We favour a free, fair, credible and peaceful process and the independence of institutions, which allow for that.”
Senator Ben Murray-Bruce was gathered to have earlier advocated that foreign sanctions be imposed on the government agency involved in the siege at the National Assembly.
Mr Murray-Bruce was said to have accused top officials of the Buhari administration of masterminding the blockade of the National Assembly by masked SSS operatives. The senator had insisted that foreign sanctions would help to ensure that their visas and those of their families are revoked by Western countries.
The SSS invaded the National Assembly at about 7.00am on Tuesday, restricted movement of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) senators, staff of the national Assembly Service and journalists  into the complex. All Progressives Congress (APC) senators were said to have gathered at the Sheraton Hotels, Abuja, holding emergency meeting, before they later moved to the residence of the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshuiomhole.
All political calculations were suspected to be in direction of impeaching the Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, following his defection to the PDP from the ruling APC.
Senators were later allowed entrance into teh national Assembly complex.
Meanwhile, Acting President Yemi Osinbajo has sacked teh DG of SSS, Lawal Daura.










































Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment