Share this on WhatsApp



President Muhammadu Buhari has written a letter to the National Assembly informing them of his resumption of duties as president.
Garba Shehu, the president’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, confirmed this in a statement in Abuja on Saturday.
According to Shehu, the transmission of the letter to the two arms of the legislature — the Senate and the House of Representatives — followed the completion of his 10-day working leave.
“In compliance with Section 145 of the 1999 constitution (as amended), I write to intimate the Senate, the House of Representatives that I have resumed my functions as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria with effect from today, Saturday, 18th August, 2018, after my vacation,” the letter read.
“Please accept, Distinguished Senate President, Hon. Speaker, House of Representatives, the assurances of my highest consideration.”
In an interview with the NTA, Buhari assured Nigerians that he would not spare anyone found guilty of any corrupt practice or sabotaging the nation’s economy.
Mr Buhari, who was reacting to happenings during his absence, including the cases of defections by politicians, said the incidents were part of the beauty of democracy.
He, however, advised all eligible Nigerians to obtain their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) to enable them to elect public officers of their choice.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the president was received by well-wishers, party supporters, and other Nigerians.
His jet landed at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, at about 6.38 p.m.
Those at the airport to welcome the president included Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi, Service Chiefs, Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Malam Musa Bello and Secretary to the Government of the Federation Boss Mustapha.
Others were the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, the Acting Chairman, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim magu and members of the presidential media team.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment