Share this on WhatsApp



The Department of State Services (DSS), on Monday, refuted reports that security operatives conducted search on the residence of former DSS Director General, Lawal Daura, where N21 billion, weapons and high figures of Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) were found.
DSS image maker, Tony Opuiyo, in a statement on Monday in Abuja indicated that the report is not verifiable on the sum of money and unspecified number of PVCs said to be found at Daura’s residence.
National Daily gathered that Opuiyo remarked that the videos in circulation were fake, noting that the speculation tend to portray that the search was conducted at Daura’s residence in Abuja and Daura, Katsina State, saying that there was no search carried out in the home of Daura by any security agency.
The statement reads inter alia:  “The attention of the Department of State Services has been drawn to the circulation of fake information and videos in which several items were said to have been recovered from the Katsina and Abuja homes of its immediate past Director General, Lawal Daura.
“These non-existent items include: N21bn cash, 400 assorted and sophisticated small arms and light weapons/rifles, and thousands of Permanent Voter Cards belonging to Niger Republic immigrants.
“In another video also in circulation, some persons believed to be personnel of a security outfit were seen forcing open safes stocked with money.
“The security operatives were described as executing a recovery operation at the Katsina home of the former DG.
“Consequently, the Service wishes to inform the public that these videos are false and should be disregarded.
“So far, no such recovery operations have been undertaken by the EFCC or any other security agency at DSS’ office or residences of the former DG.
“There is no doubt that different interests have continued to give varied accounts of the incident of last week at the National Assembly.
“It may, however, be recalled that the Presidency had pledged to carry out a detailed investigation regarding the alleged National Assembly siege.”
Opuiyo appealed to the public to exercise restraint in their narration of events and as such, desist from spreading fake news or engaging in activities that might mislead or further cause breach of peace as well as preempt the outcome of investigations.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment