Share this on WhatsApp



 
Arsenal boss Unai Emery has denied midfielder Mesut Ozil missed Saturday’s Premier League victory over West Ham because of a row in training.
The Spaniard said Ozil, 29, was not in the squad for the 3-1 win at Emirates Stadium because he was ill.
ESPN Brazil reported that the German had an argument with Emery on Friday and refused to be in the squad after finding out he was on the bench.
“Why is this information out there? It isn’t true,” said Emery.
“He left training because he was going to his home because he is sick.”
Emery told Match of the Day that he sat down with Ozil and the team doctor on Friday and decided he would not play.
He said he told the player to attend the match if he was feeling better, adding that Ozil was “with the team” before the game but later left because of his illness.
“He is bad with sickness. There is no problem with the player. Speak with the doctor – he can explain better,” said Emery.
Issa Diop’s own goal and Danny Welbeck’s late strike helped an unconvincing Arsenal secure their first victory under Emery since the former Sevilla and Paris St-Germain boss succeeded Arsene Wenger in May.
Xxx
I want Ronaldo to break my 10 years record at Juventus
Juventus legend David Trezeguet has revealed that he will happy if the Bianconeri new signing Cristiano Ronaldo breaks his goalscoring record at the club,National Daily learnt.
Trezeguet  explained that if Ronaldo ever breaks his goalscoring record of 171 goals in 10 seasons. He said: “Should he beat my record? No problem, I would be proud.
“I have never been jealous of others’ records, imagine if it is overcome by someone, he should be a champion. Until June, I was the youngest Frenchman to have scored in the final round of a World Cup.
“Now, that guy is Mbappé and that’s how it goes: I’m happy to have been overtaken by a guy with a great future “.
Ronaldo started for Juventus in their Serie A opener against Chievo Verona last week and against Lazio yesterday where provide an assist for the second goal.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment