Share this on WhatsApp



 
Two senators from the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Isah Misau and Rafiu Ibrahim, have accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of focusing on Senate President Bukola Saraki and making him the subject of all discussions.
The senators warned the ruling party to leave Saraki alone or face their wrath when the senate reconvene on September 25.
“This is the first time in the history of the country that the ruling party will leave the issue of its achievements and start blaming its failure on just one individual, no matter who the individual is,” the statement read.
According to the senators, APC has devoted all the time and knowledge of their national chairman, national leader, publicity secretary, four senators and two presidential aides to the daily abuse of Saraki.
“We can see through this plot. The plan is to get Saraki so engrossed in the battle for survival in the senate and the pummeling from the APC cabal such that he will have no time to pursue his aspiration for 2019. However, this is a short time strategy. It will not work. That is why the man remains unfazed by the antics.
“You blame a man for what an institution lawfully did. Is this not dishonest? Senate leader, Ahmed Lawan who moved the motion for our adjournment till September 25 and the minority leader, Senator Godswill Akpabio who seconded the motion are in APC, yet they kept quiet when all the falsehood are being peddled now that Saraki unilaterally and hurriedly adjourn the senate.
“These senators kept quiet about their roles simply because they want to be good boys. When the motion for adjournment was carried by voice vote, no dissenting voice was heard.
“Many people who are grandstanding now do not care how history will record their roles. How can those who play key roles in the senate now turn round and be blaming everything on one man? Is Saraki now a superman? Is he not just one senator like each and every one of us? Let us play back all the tape records of the senate proceedings.
“Which of the decisions that are now being criticized did the APC pretenders in the senate oppose? Of the ten- man senate leadership, five of them are in APC.  Those who enjoy privileges in the senate now look the other way when the presidency is complaining.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment