Share this on WhatsApp
Genevieve Nnaji’s directorial debut, LIONHEART, has been announced as an official selection in the Discovery Section of the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF), September 6-16, 2018.

Set in Southeast Nigeria, LIONHEART tells the story of a young woman, Adaeze Obiagu (Genevieve Nnaji), who becomes saddled with the responsibility of running her sick father’s business under the suffocating supervision of an intensely crude and eccentric uncle.  Her competing business instincts and family obligations become a catalyst for drastic change not everyone is ready to embrace.

“Film-making is what I love to do,” declared Nnaji. “I am grateful to have had the chance to share my love with millions over the years.  LIONHEART is the beginning of a journey to explore and express my creative interpretation of story-telling, particularly African stories. Africa is a possessor of the most compelling stories as yet untold, and we are determined to tell our stories, our way, through our voices, to the world. And TIFF is the perfect launch for the film.”

Genevieve Nnaji, who will also be seen at TIFF performing alongside Kate Beckinsale in the highly anticipated film, Farming from Director Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje, was also celebrated at TIFF 2013 in Half of a Yellow Sun.


A story about hard-nosed rivalry and often contrarian efforts to rescue an ailing business, LIONHEART is “equal parts family drama, female empowerment and a humorous charmer,” said Producer Chinny Onwugbenu.

“We assembled a cast of Nigeria’s most respected and revered screen icons,” continued Onwugbenu, “including Pete Edochie, Nkem Owoh, Onyeka Onwenu, Kanayo .O. Kanayo, Chika Okpala, Kalu Ikeagwu, Sanni Mu’azu, Yakubu Mohammed, Ngozi Ezeonu, Peter Okoye (P-Square) and Chibuzor Azubuike (Phyno). It serves to make the film truly representative of a Nigeria not often seen on screen today.”

LIONHEART will premiere in Nigeria in a theatrical release in December 2018.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment