Share this on WhatsApp



APC’s national leader Bola Tinubu has finally spoken on the defection of Senate President Bukola Saraki and Sokoto Gov. Aminu Tambuwal, arguing that both were too scared to contest for whatever they want at the party’s primaries.
He also explained that the defectors were disappointed because the APC would not share “national wealth and other offices and privileges.”
In a release entitled “They go away because we go the right way”, which he personally signed on Sunday, the former governor refuted the claim–of bad governance–by the Tanbuwal and Saraki.
“Governor Tambuwal’s exit can be distilled to one cause. He covets the Presidency. However, he had not the stomach to challenge President Buhari in a primary,” saud Tinubu.
“Tambuwal felt further insulted that he would be compelled to face a direct primary just to retain the governorship nomination,” Tinubu said in a statement titled, “They go away because we go the right way.”
On Saraki, Tinubu said the Senate president had realised that he might not even get the ticket to return to the Senate, much less become the Senate President. He also squared the the two defectors.
“Returning to the PDP, he harbours dreams of the presidency but Tambuwal’s ambition will dwarf Saraki’s when the two collide.
“If Saraki had remained in the APC, he would be unable to reclaim his Senate seat let alone the Senate Presidency. He thus bolted because he lusts for the presidency but was promised by the PDP, at least, a return to his position in the Senate.
“For Saraki to talk about lack of governance is for him to deny who he is and the position he holds. This man stands as Nigeria’s number three citizen. Clothed is he in ample power and influence. If he saw areas where the government and the nation needed help, he could have easily applied his energies to these areas. He could have drafted legislation and easily got laws passed.
“However, no progressive enactment bears his name for he cared not for progress. He has been more focused on changing the rules of the Senate to favour himself and changing the order of elections so as to coincide with his selfish designs.”
Tinubu also shed more light on what the defection pirtends for the ruling APC.
“Some have predicted the demise of the APC. Those who hope for our decline will be disappointed by the inaccuracy of their desires. The days, months and years ahead will bury such errant forecasts for these predictions are born more of bitterness than of objective analysis.
He warned Nigerians ti be careful not to reduce governance to figure-crunching about elected officials moving from one party to another.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment