Share this on WhatsApp



The former Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) post-2015 National Caretaker Committee, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, a PDP presidential aspirant, has consistently declared that he is the best among the party’s aspirants to win the presidential election in 2019.
The former Kaduna State Governor insisted that he is in a better position to pick the PDP presidential ticket because he enjoys wide support from PDP members.
Makarfi, in Lagos on Sunday, contended that contrary to the opinion that the party’s ticket would go to the highest bidder, money had never been the determining factor of who won the presidential ticket. He remarked that with the kind of support he enjoys from PDP members, he stands a good chance to pick the party’s ticket, saying that he does not need to give money to win the PDP presidential ticket.
Makarfi had declared:  “When did Nigeria start to produce presidents because of resources? Former presidents, Alhaji Shehu Shagari; Chief Olusegun Obasanjo; Alhaji Umaru Musa Yar’Adua; Dr. Goodluck Jonathan and now President Muhammadu Buhari, did not become president based on money.
“In one of the South West states I visited, a member said other aspirants have been giving them money and gifts, but I don’t have to give them money or gifts to vote for me in the primaries because they know I am the best man for the job.”
Makarfi remarked that his contributions made immense addition to the improvement of the PDP. He insisted that PDP became the party to belong because of the reform he initiated when he was Chairman of the Caretaker Committee.
“No other presidential aspirant in the party has my pedigree. I have been assured of becoming the groom by members who are aware of those efforts and have sworn they will not sell their votes at the primaries.
“Since I joined the PDP, I have never left the party.
“My experience as a member of the Senate Committee on Finance for eight years is also an advantage. I will bring the experience to bear when I pick the ticket and emerge as president,” he declared.
Ahmed Makarfi is contesting that PDP presidential ticket with former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar; former Governor of Sokoto, Attahiru Bafarawa; former Governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso; also former Kano State Governor, Ibrahim Shekarau;  Gombe State Governor, Ibrahim Dankwambo, and Senate President Busola Saraki. Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State is yet to declare for the PDP presidential ticket but has been holding wide consultations.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment