Share this on WhatsApp



 
Richards Adeniyi
The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed recently said that rice being imported into Nigeria is not good for human consumption.
Mohammed told newsmen in Oro, Ifelodun Local Government Area of Kwara State that some imported rice were meant for feeding of cattle in countries of export.
He claimed that imported rice is cheaper than locally produced rice because the imported ones are being dumped in the country.
The Minister advised Nigerians to instead go for locally made rice because according to him, they are healthier and fresh than the imported rice.
According to him, “People may say that imported rice is still cheaper. Oh yes, for three reasons: One, the ones being imported is rice that is no longer fit for human consumption. They are dumping it here. The rice is sub-standard. They even give the rice on credit for people to buy, because they know that the rice they are exporting should be given to cattle. That is why we have embarked on the campaign in the mass media that Nigerians should buy made in Nigeria rice.
“Why imported rice is cheaper is that it is not fit for consumption. It is being dumped. It is rice that has been kept in silos for years that is being unleashed on Nigerians; but because it is not coming through the proper channels, it is being smuggled.
“Many of the imported brands of rice will not pass the NAFDAC test; that is why we have continued to campaign that Nigerians should patronise Nigerian rice, because it is the only healthy rice. No Nigerian rice is older than one year.”
“When we came in, there were five million rice farmers. Today, we have in excess of 11 million rice farmers. Our rice import has been cut by over 80 per cent. These didn’t happen by accident. They were as a result of our Anchor Borrowers’ Programme. There are more millionaire farmers today than at any other time in the history of our nation. Today, Nigeria is closer to achieving self-sufficiency in rice than at any other time in the history of our country.”
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment