Share this on WhatsApp





In view of the recent price hike in subscription fees of pay TV networks, StarTimes, one of the leading digital TV in Africa, has announced the reduction of its highest bouquet (Classic Bouquet) from N2, 600 to N1, 900.
The package, according to series of tweets on StarTimes’ Twitter account, would offer the inclusion of Ebony Life TV, ST Nollywood Plus, and Fox.
Recall that Multichoice had announced that the increment on its subscription prices for their digital satellite platform, DSTV was expected to take effect on August 1, 2018.
The price for the DSTV Premium package had been increased from N14,700 to N15,800; Compact Plus from N9,900 to N10,650; Compact from N6,300 to N6,800; Family from N3,800 to N4,000, and Access from N1,900 to N2,000.
Nigerians appeared to have been craving for a reduction in subscription prices of pay TV networks.
Following the announcement of a reduction in StarTimes subscription prices, Nigerians took to twitter en masse to express their excitements.
Azeez Olalekan tweeted “Thank you StarTimes for reasoning with us Nigerians.” Another user, Obinna expressed surprise at the gesture tweeting “wow. I’m subscribing to classic bouquet right away”.
StarTimes tweet reads thus;
“We are aware of the recent price hike in subscription by D other pay TV network and sincerely think that Nigerians deserve better.
“The price increment is highly insensitive to the current economic hardship most Nigerians who also happen to be pay-TV subscribers are faced with.
“Since their price increment took effect last week, we have received tons of DMs, mentions & enquiries about our pricing, products and services by defecting customers.
“In view of this, we are happy to inform everyone that our highest bouquet (Classic Bouquet) will be reduced from N2,600 to N1,900 – With the inclusion of Ebony Life TV, ST Nollywood Plus & Fox.
“We hope that everyone who seeks quality entertainment at pocket-friendly rates jumps on this opportunity to do so.”
StarTimes is a Chinese multinational media company with strong presence in Africa.
The company offers digital terrestrial television and satellite television services to consumers. More so, StarTimes provides digital television technologies to countries and television broadcasting industries which are switching from analog to digital television.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment