Share this on WhatsApp








The Nigeria Police, in their interim report on the investigation of the invasion of the national Assembly complex by the State Security Service (SSS), on Tuesday, August 7, 2018, indicted the sacked SSS Director General, Lawal Musa Daura, of conspiracy, intimidation, intent to cause breach of public peace and colluding with some highly placed politicians for ulterior motives of achieving self-political interests.
The Police in the interim report to the Acting President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, dated August 8, 2018 and signed by the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, titled; “Interim investigation report on criminal conspiracy to wit trespass, intimidation and unlawful invasion of National Assembly Complex with intent to cause breach of public peace,” the IG acquainted the Acting President that on 7th August, 2018, at about 13.14 hours, following a petition letter No. OVP/SGF/7818/381 dated 7th August, 2018, from the Acting President to investigate and report findings against Lawal Musa Daura, the sacked Director General, Department of State Security Service, a team of cracked operatives headed by \Commissioner of Police, CP Garba Baba Umar, were deployed to a respond immediately and take the suspects into custody for interrogation and further investigation.
The Police acknowledged that it was reported that on 7th august, 2018 at about 0600 hours, the then Director General of the Department of State Security Services, Lawal Musa Daura, did conspired with his operatives wearing hood and mask invaded the National Assembly Complex. The Police maintained that they barricaded the road to the National Assembly and were intimidating members of the National Assembly and staff by forcefully preventing them from performing their legitimate and constitutional duties, thereby, committing a crime with intent to incite and weep up sentiment of the National Assembly Members against the Federal Government of Nigeria, which is a breach of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, hence, the complaint.
IGP Idris stated that the principal suspect, Daura, was formally arrested and interrogated in line with the allegation made against him.
The IGP highlighted that following the interrogation by the intelligence operatives, the following facts emerged:
“That on 7th August, 2018, the suspect, Lawal Musa Daura, illegally used his position as then DG DSS conspired with his officers and men who wore hoods and masks, invaded the National Assembly complex, thereby, preventing and forcing the peaceful members and staff of the National Assembly from gaining access to the complex without any element of crime committed or an invitation by the leadership of the National Assembly.
“That the suspect in his statement confessed and accepted to have deployed operatives of the SSS on a claim of intelligence report that unauthourised persons were planning to smuggle undisclosed dangerous weapons and incriminating items into the National Assembly Complex.
The IGP remarked that Daura did not inform the Acting President neither did he share the information with the Nigeria Police Force or other sister security agencies before carrying out the unilateral security operations.
“That so many distinguished Senators, Honourable Members and staff of the National Assembly who wanted access to the National Assembly complex, suffered humiliation, intimidation and were forcefully chased out of the Assembly Complex at gun point by operatives of the SSS wearing hoods and masks.”
IGP Idris further declared the findings on the investigation as follows:
“On 7th August, 2018, the SSS invaded the National Assembly on the instructions of the DG, DSS, Daura.
“It was also established that Senators, Honourable Members and staff of the National Assembly were prevented from entering the National Assembly Complex.
“Those who invaded and prevented National Assembly members were officers of the SSS.”
The IGP accordingly recommended that, “There is need to search the houses and premises of all identified suspects.
“All communication gadgets such as Computers, Mobile Phones and other Electronic devices of the suspects will be thoroughly analyzed.”
The IGP Idris declared that the following realities were established in the conclusion: “It is crystal clear that the Principal suspect, Daura, may be acting the script of some highly placed politicians to achieve selfish political goals, hence, his unilateral and unlawful decision to invade the National Assembly Complex.
“As it stands, the principal suspect, Daura, is undergoing further interrogation at our facility and is currently placed on house arrest at a private property in Birnin Kebbi Close, Off Birnin Kebbi Crescent, Garki II, Abuja, awaiting further directives from the Acting President.”
IG Idris assured that further findings on the ongoing investigations would be communicated to the Acting President Osinbajo.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment