Share this on WhatsApp



Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State has suspended his partisan vacation or perhaps, political medical vacation that took out of partisan political activities since the July 14, 2018, governorship election in Ekiti State.  Governor Fayose and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) supporters had very rough experiences in the hands of the Police who were expected to guarantee security during the governorship election but turned to intimidate and harass the governor and PDP members in the state.
Resuming political activities, Governor Fayose, at a meeting at the Governor’s Office in Ado Ekiti,  with aspirants for Federal and State Legislatures election, including PDP members and supporters in Ekiti State, declared that the ‘mandate’ given to the Deputy Governor and PDP candidate, Professor Kolapo Olusola Eleka, would be reclaimed at the Tribunal.
Fayose declared that PDP won the July 14 governorship election in Ekiti, noting that the All Progressives Congress (APC) they stole the mandate and claim to have won cannot celebrate because they knew they didn’t win. The governor maintained that Ekiti people are in pain over the stolen mandate.
“We will reclaim our mandate. Let me assure you that my destiny is tied to yours and I will continue to be committed to this cause until you retrieve your mandate.
“The Journey of life is beyond today, we have seen today but no one has seen tomorrow. I believe God will return this mandate.
“I appreciate your courage. Life is full of challenges and gives opportunities. Certain things happen for you to know who your real friends are. It gives you the stamina o carry on also.
“Ekiti people and even your detractors will celebrate you. For me, I have done my best for the election, we won and I have no doubt that we will win the battle again.
“Keep hope alive because Ekiti people out there are in pain. Go to town, you will see that the people, who stole the mandate, cannot celebrate it as the common man there is more pained,” Fayose had declared.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment