Share this on WhatsApp



Fake employments are common in Nigeria, here are five ways to spot fake job agents.
“Dear applicant, your CV was received and we sent you the N.N.P.C recruitment form. Print it out, fill it and send back to us. Call Mr. (NAME) (NUMBER) for more info”.
If you are receiving any message like this, then you should be very careful because fake job agents have already got you on their list.
No credible online presence
Any company that is sending you recruitment updates or interview messages in 2018 is expected to have an online presence.
The company must either have a website, blog or a social media page. If you receive a job message and you can’t find any useful information about the company online, ignore it.
They ask for money
If you are looking for a job and a company that needs your service asks you to pay a certain fee to employ you beware that that job is not credible.
The moment they ask you to pay a registration or consultation fees,   don’t waste your time trying to negotiate your salary.
 Messages about job role you didn’t apply for
This is very common. You wake up in the morning and you see a message on your phone saying, based on your application, you are invited for an assessment at XYZ Company on Monday, November 2, 2018. When you see messages like this, you just have to ignore it.
Job interview versus Job briefing
 Fake job scammers don’t know the difference between a job interview and job briefing, and that is why some of them prefer to use phrases like job assessment.
When you are searching for a job, beware of how the job interview messages you receive are drafted.
A job interview is a formal meeting in which the representative(s) of a company asked a potential employee some questions to determine his/her suitability for the job.
A job briefing on the other hand, is the process of explaining in clear terms the full description of the tasks and responsibilities of an employee to him/her.
However, when a company that has no online presence confuses these two, don’t bother to go for the interview. It is a scam.
Check job title
Companies looking for an employee to fill a vacant position in their establishments must have a job title for the position. When this is not stated in the email or sms you receive, you’ve got to be careful.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment