Share this on WhatsApp



The outgone General Officer Commanding (GOC) 81 Division, Nigerian Army, Maj Gen Enobong Udoh has called on officers and soldiers to redouble their efforts to curtail the activities of cult groups, military impersonators and other criminal gangs operating within their Area of Responsibilities (AOR).
Gen Udoh, who addressed troops on Tuesday in Lagos while handing over to the new GOC, Maj Gen Musa Sani Yusuf, solicited for their support and cooperation to new GOC for enduring peace and security in Lagos and its environs.
Shortly after exchanging handing and taking over notes as well as decorating Gen Yusuf with the division’s insignia, the former GOC implored officers to sit up and face military work squarely.
“There should be no room for lacuna. When I took over the command about six months ago, I realised that the level of operations was very low. However, with available tools, we were able to improve the situation.
He commended the soldiers for their commitment and dedication stressing that “you are partners in progress.”
He added that if not for their discipline and loyalty,  he wouldn’t have been able to achieve so much within the short period as the General Officer Commanding of the division.
“All of you are partners in progress. So many people in the town impersonating us were defeated. Their tricks didn’t work and we have been able to deal with them.
“Extend the same support to my successor, but don’t relent in your duties until all manner of criminalities within our AOR are stamped out,” Gen Udoh emphasised.
“We have been able to effectively deal with Badoo boys. As I leave the division, I don’t want to hear about them again. Also, with your cooperation, we tackled other criminal gangs like the cult boys operating around Ikorodu.”
In his remarks, the General Officer Commanding, 81 Division, Maj Gen MS Yusuf expressed satisfaction with the achievement of the outgone GOC noting that when he handed over to him about six months ago at the 6 Division, Port Harcourt, he was able to achieve a lot as the template he had laid was quite helpful.
Among the achievements of the out gone GOC included supporting the Nigerian Customs Services in its anti-smuggling drive; establishment of Forward Operations Base (FOB) in Epe; arrest of about 50 impostors and four others for communal clashes as well as curtailing the illegal activities of pipe vandalism within its AOR.
Maj Gen Enobong assumed duty at the 81 Division in February, 2018 until recently that he was posted to the Army Headquarters, Abuja and appointed as the Chief of Logistics.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment