Share this on WhatsApp



National leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has accused some lawmakers of plotting to impeach President Muhammadu Buhari.
Speaking at an a APC mega rally in Akwa Ibom state to welcome former senate Minority Leader, Godswill Akpabio who officially dumped the PDP on Wednesday, Tinubu asked the affected lawmakers to drop their plans.
He asked the unnamed lawmakers to drop their plan because it is “not possible for a lizard to wrestle an antelope.”
He described Nigeria’s current situation as “a war between progressives and the conservatives”.
“We believe in government of the people, for the people and by the people but the conservatives believe in government of sharing,” he said.
“We say Nigerian money belongs to Nigerians. We say Nigerians must be given development. We believe in investing in the people.
“But they believe in sharing and looting the money. Today we are aspiring in our vision, but the PDP has no vision. They believe in sharing and looting the treasury.’’
He also accused the PDP of failing Nigerians despite having 16 years at its disposal.
“Today, Buhari says we must change; we must account for Nigeria’s money but they are resisting,” he said.
Tinubu also expressed happiness that Akwa Ibom “has embraced the change agenda” of the current administration.
He said: “With the present posture of the state, the APC shall sweep the evil out with the broom. The people in the city shall be swept away with brooms.”
Meanwhile, Senator Godswill Akpabio on Wednesday revealed that he has no intention to be the Senate President but he has the intention of becoming what God wants him to be.
The former Senate Minority Leader in an interview on Channels Television’s political programme, Politics Today, explained further the reasons behind his defection from the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).
“I don’t have any intention of becoming Senate President today. But I have the intention of becoming whatever God wants me to be. My name is Godswill and I believe in the will of God.”
Akpabio, who was a former governor of Akwa-Ibom State under the PDP, said some of the reasons behind his defection to the APC was that the PDP had no ‘reward system for members who toiled for the party.’
“The Chairman of PDP is shocked, he thinks I am moving against the tide but I am not. The problem with my erstwhile party, the PDP, is that they didn’t have a reward system.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment