Share this on WhatsApp



Itse Sagay, Chairman of Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), says he does not believe that Kemi Adeosun, minister of finance, forged her National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) exemption certificate.
Sagay described Adeosun as a brilliant woman and valuable member of the government. “Let me tell you my reaction. This woman is a brilliant and extremely valuable member of this government,” he said.
“A lot of the good things happening now – the welfare that Nigerians are enjoying and are going to enjoy, because it takes time, and the way our economy is booming, how we got out of recession – are due to her expertise, her commitment, her sacrifice.
“There is nothing in this world that will make me remove such a woman from the government. The PDP can weep from now until there is no tear in their body; she is going to be there. We cannot afford to lose that woman.
“Who cares about youth service? I don’t bloody care whether she did youth service or not. It’s irrelevant as far as I am concerned.
“I don’t believe it. I don’t see anything serious about not doing youth service. I don’t see anything serious about it. That’s my own bias, not government.
“I’m telling you now. If I were President Buhari, I would never, ever touch that woman because she’s damn good.”
Sagay also said Senate President Bukola Saraki should relinquish his position as a matter of honour.
“He should relinquish his position as a matter of honour. He’s not compelled by law to do so. He needs to be removed by two-thirds majority,” Sagay said.
“He got there because he was in APC, even though he got there by subterfuge, which is typical of him. He got there in a cheeky, fraudulent manner. Nevertheless, for him to be removed, they need two-thirds, not of the senate, but of those present and voting at a meeting.
“It doesn’t have to be everybody. It’s those who happen to be there. Once they meet the quorum of one-third, and he is there, he can be removed by two-thirds of that one-third.”
naiona
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment