Senate President Bukola Saraki
        Share this on WhatsApp



 

Senate ready to reconvene over INEC

 
Despite calls by leadership of the All Progressives Congress and some lawmakers that Senator Bukola Saraki should step down as the senate president following his defection from the party to the opposition party, the senator has insisted he would not step down unless two-thirds of the senate voted for his removal.
Saraki disclosed this on Wednesday while addressing a press conference on the invasion of the national assembly by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS).
According to the Senate President, he was not given the position, but was elected by majority of the senators, and therefore would only step down if two-third of the senators remove him.
Commenting on the siege laid to the national assembly on Tuesday, Saraki said it was pity that Nigeria found itself in such a shameful situation.
He also commended members of the house of reps and senate for standing up to the security agents.
Saraki also disclosed that the 8th Senate was ready to reconvene to consider the N242b INEC budget currently pending before it.
Reacting to questions from newsmen after the official briefing, Saraki said that the National Assembly was committed to the smooth running of the government and would not do anything that will negatively affect the operations of government.
He argued that the Senate in recognition of the importance of the INEC budget, had scheduled a meeting with the leadership of the Commission on Tuesday but the planned meeting was botched by the siege on the National Assembly.
Saraki however knocked the executive for failing to bring the budget since January knowing fully that there would be an election in 2019.
“We stand committed to doing our utmost as lawmakers to ensure that the responsibility and functionality of governance are met. Although we are on annual break, we are daily reviewing the situation and are alive to the responsibility to take action as necessary.
“Unfortunately, yesterday’s shutdown prevented us from meeting with INEC, as scheduled, to address their request. We will continue to do all to ensure a smooth and successful 2019 election.
“In the spirit of that we also appeal to Mr. President to sign the new 2018 Electoral Act Amendment Bill in line with his recommendations, which has been sent for his assent.
As at the time of this report, the National Assembly was already meeting with the INEC leadership over the Budget.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment