Share this on WhatsApp



 
Liverpool owners Fenway Sports Group insist the club are not for sale – but they are open to fresh investment.
The Reds were subject of a £2billion offer from Sheik Khaled Bin Zayed Al Nehayan – part of the Abu Dhabi ruling family and cousin of Manchester City owner Sheik Mansour – in early 2018.
It would have been the most expensive takeover in the history of football and was a joint venture between Sheik Khaled and a minority stake Chinese partner.
Liverpool chairman Tom Werner met with Midhat Kidwai, the managing director of Sheik Khaled’s conglomerate of companies, in New York.
FSG admit there was interest but the significance of discussions has been played down by Liverpool’s parent company, that talks ended in January and insist that there is no interest in selling the Champions League finalists.
A statement from FSG on the subject has declared: “FSG have been clear and consistent: the club is not for sale.
“But what the ownership has said, again clearly and consistently, is that under the right terms and conditions we would consider taking on a minority investor, if such a partnership was to further our commercial interests in specific market places and in line with the continued development and growth of the club and the team.”
Last October, Werner insisted there was “no truth” in Middle East reports that FSG had rejected a £1.5billion offer for the club from Dubai financier Amanda Staveley and her firm PCP Capital Partners.
And the club’s Boston-based owners are not interested in parting with the club. However, they remain keen for further outside investment.
They took over in 2010 for £300million and have since redeveloped the club on and off the field.
Yet they are seeking further capital in order to ensure Liverpool can continue battling with the likes of Manchester City atop the Premier League and in Europe.
City Football Group, which owns City, sold a 13 per cent stake to a Chinese consortium in 2015 for £265million.
FSG would be keen to enter into a similar agreement – selling a minority stake – if the right partner can be found.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment