CEO/MD of Diamond Bank, Uzoma Dozie
        Share this on WhatsApp



By Odunewu Segun
 
In line with its objectives of streamlining its operations and focus its resources on the immense opportunities in Nigeria, Diamond Bank Plc has put up its UK operations for sale, and is expected to dispose of the assets before the year runs out.
National Daily gathered that the bank had already struck a deal with British industrialist Sanjeev Gupta earlier this year.
According to the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Diamond Bank, Uzoma Dozie, the bank’s strategic objective is to become the fastest growing, and most profitable technology-driven retail banking franchise in the country.
Recall that the bank, in 2017, sold its West African banking operations in order to focus on Nigeria’s significant retail banking opportunity.
In a statement made available to the public, the bank agreed to sell its operations in Benin, Togo, Cote d’Ivoire and Senegal to Manzi Finances S.A., a Cote d’Ivoire-based financial services holding company.
Diamond Bank, had in May, 2018, released its financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Gross earnings increased from N184.1 billion in 2016 to N189.6 billion in 2017. This represents a 3% increase year-on-year.
Loss Before Tax for the bank during the year ended December 2017 is N11.5 billion as against a profit before tax of N3.36 billion in full-year 2016.
The bank made a loss after tax of N9.01 billion during the year ended December 2017 as against a profit after tax of N3.49 billion in full-year 2016.
Diamond Bank reported a Loss per share of 56kobo in 2017 compared to earnings per share of 9 kobo in 2016.
The lender is currently trading at N1.23 at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) market.
In June, 2018, the bank sought to convert its current international banking license to a national banking license.
The conversion is expected to happen latest in December, 2018.
Today, Diamond Bank Plc a leading retail bank in Nigeria. A lead driver of financial inclusion, providing enhanced customer experience through innovation and technology.
Regarded as supporter of lifestyle trends, its mobile banking app, “Diamond Mobile”, currently has over 2 million active subscribers on its platform. Diamond Bank has over the years leveraged its underlying resilience to grow its asset base and to retain its key business relationships.
It has also played a leading role in partnering with domestic and International bodies such as Women’s World Banking, The Gates Foundation, MTN, etc. to create easy access to financial services for the unbanked. We have cultivated excellent banking relationships with well-known international banks, allowing us to provide a range of world class banking services to suit the business needs of our clients.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment