Share this on WhatsApp



 
A court in Lagos State has warned Nigerians to avoid taking Vitamin C with Fanta or Sprite soft drinks as this could lead to health complications.
Recall that Dr. Emmanuel Fijabi Adebo of Fijabi Adebo Holdings had, in March 2007, purchased large quantities of Coca-Cola, Fanta Orange, Sprite, Fanta Lemon, Fanta Pineapple and Soda Water from NBC for export to the UK for retail purposes.
However, the drinks failed a sample test for human consumption in the UK and became poisonous in the presence of Ascorbic Acid, known as Vitamin C.
Dr. Fijabi subsequently dragged both NAFDAC and the NBC to court over the issue in 2007. He urged the court to direct NAFDAC to conduct routine laboratory tests of all soft drinks and allied products of the company, to guarantee their safety.
While delivering judgement on the case in March 31, Justice Adedayo Oyebanji of the Igbosere High Court in Lagos also told the National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) to force the Nigeria Bottling Company (NBC) Plc to place a written warning on the drinks.
Justice Oyebanji also awarded damages of N2 million against NAFDAC for failing “to live up to expectations.”
“In consideration of the fact that this case was filed in 2008 and has been in court for nine years, N2 million is awarded against NAFDAC. Interest shall be paid on the cost awarded at the rate of 10 per cent per annum until liquidation of the said sum,” Justice Oyebanji said.
Meanwhile, NAFDAC filed an appeal against the judgement which indicted it for failing in its duties to Nigerians. The NBC also appealed the case saying that the judgment is inaccurate and its products are safe.
The Federal Government has however reassured Nigerians that Coca-Cola products manufactured in Nigeria were safe for consumption.
This was released in a statement issued by Mrs Akinola Boade, the Director, Media and Public Relations, Federal Ministry of Health, in Abuja.
She said the explanation followed a stakeholders meeting summoned by the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, to address related issues on the recent court judgment on the case filed by Fijabi Holdings against the Nigeria Bottling Company and NAFDAC.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment