Share this on WhatsApp



The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has raised alarm that available data, both locally and internationally, confirm that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration had failed woefully in all its promises and claims, particularly, on the fight against corruption, economy, security, democracy and national unity.
The opposition political party indicated that after thorough review of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) government, it has come to the conclusion that the APC government has failed in every sector.
PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement in Abuja, indicated that the party observed that the Buhari administration claimed fight against corruption had been exposed to be a big lie.
The National Publicity Secretary also dismissed the claim of anti-corruption war as a charade designed to hound perceived political opponents while providing cover for corruption and pillaging of resources by agents of the Presidency.
The PDP declared: “The Buhari administration is practically a felonious empire of corrupt individuals, certificate forgers, contract inflators, looters of treasuries and well-known liars, making it, ‘head to toe’, the biggest assemblage of plunderers in the history of our nation,” Ologbondiyan stated.
“We ask if Mr President is indeed a man of integrity as his handlers want the world to believe. Why is he comfortable employing, embracing, surrounding himself with and offering protection to corrupt persons, certificate forgers and liars as ministers, advisers and political associates?
“Are there things Mr President benefits or has in common with such individuals that attract them to him or for which they enjoy his cover to steal public funds in parastatals, agencies and ministries, particularly those under the direct supervision of the President?
“Largely, due to the incompetence and corruption of the Buhari Presidency, our once robust economy has been wrecked, resulting in unbearable hardship, unemployment, hunger and starvation, strange sicknesses and untold depression with compatriots resorting to suicide missions and slavery as options.
“Under President Buhari, our nation has become dangerously divided. Violent clashes and bloodletting has become the order of the day.
“Rights of citizens are daily violated; democratic institutions, including the courts and the National Assembly have come under attack; elections are rigged with impunity; the unity of our beloved country is now under stress.
“The PDP is ready to commence a series to expose the lies and failures of this administration as well as the huge liability, woes and dangers it has brought on our nation.
“The PDP also challenges both the Presidency and the APC to an open debate on governance, where we will further expose the failure of the APC and Buhari Presidency to Nigerians. The time has finally come.”


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment