Share this on WhatsApp



By Esther Egbe
1.Anthony Ujah
The experienced striker was the match winner for Mainz 05 in their opening game against Stuttgart after coming in from the bench at 67th minutes, he netted the winning goal after 76 minutes for his club to get off to a bright start.
2.Alex Iwobi
The Arsenal forward made a milestone 100th appearance for his club in a 2-1 win over London rivals West Ham. Iwobi started the game before he was replaced in the 45 minute.
3. Babajide David
The top flight Norwegian player helped FK Haugesund to register a 2-0 win against Stabaek, opening the scoring in the 32nd minute of the contest at
Haugesund Stadium.
4.Bonaventure Dennis
He scored his first goal of the season for Belgian champions Club Brugge in a 2-1 home win over Anderlecht.
5. Chisom Egbuchulam
The 26-year-old scored in the 8th and 27th minute to give the home team a 3-0 lead at the Falcon Alkoholfri Arena (Falkenberg), before netting his third in the 70th minute.
6.Daniel Chima
Chima  replaced another Nigerian forward Leke James with 15 minutes remaining before reducing the deficit in the second minute of stoppage time between his club Molde versus Ranheim of Norway
7.Moses Ebiye
Finally scored his first professional goal for the home team in a 3-2 He gave Stroemmen the lead with fifteen minutes played.
8.Michael Ogungbaro
A defensive midfielder by trade, the 22-year-old last found the net against their opponent.
A division lower, åsane beat Tromsdalen 3-1 at Myrdal Gress (Ulset).
was perfectly placed to give Asane the lead in the second minute after a corner.
9.Orionode Odah
The former Enugu Rangers forward came off the bench to score on his debut for Egyptian club ENPPI as they fought back to win a league game away from home.
10.Odion Ighalo
The 29-year-old striker Scored his 16thgoal in the Chinese Super League.
Ighalo was the hero of Changchun Yatai after he scored the equaliser to make sure they didn’t lose at home to Hebei CFFC in a game which ended 2-2.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment