Share this on WhatsApp



 
Critical stakeholders in the oil, gas and power sector in Africa are set to meet in October 1-3, 2018 in Cape Town, South Africa at an Oil and Gas Exhibition being put together by Future Energy Africa.
The conference tagged Africa’s Integrated Oil, Gas and Energy Transformation, is dedicated to advancing future oil, gas and energy solutions for the continent. With a far reaching industry collaboration, under the esteemed patronage of the Department of Energy South Africa, the event is set to attract leading governments, national oil companies, international oil companies and industry experts to provide in-depth analysis and an honest reflection of Africa’s set to revolutionize the future.
Addressing a media briefing in Lagos on Monday 20, one of the media partners and a speaker at the exhibition, Margaret Nongo-Okojokwu, who is the editor of Orient Energy Review, said the exhibition will bring together African leaders and stakeholders in the energy sector with the intention of providing cut edge solution to the problems confronting the power and energy sector in Africa.
According to her, over 50 exhibitors, 100 critical speakers, including Nigeria’s Minister of State for Petroleum, Dr. Ibe Kwachikwu and 50 participating countries from Africa will be at the exhibition with a view to boosting bilateral trades among African countries.
“Africa has become the most sought after bride with many developed countries now looking towards Africa for investments. At this exhibition, Future Energy Africa exhibition, provides a platform for leading industry figures to interact at the highest level, privately and securely.”
She said the conference will also provide exhibitors and conference participants with an indispensable source of information, dedicated platform for on-site interview.
In his own submission, Mr. Mayowa Afe, Managing Director of Danvic Petroleum international, said the exhibition would provide Nigerian energy companies the opportunity of promoting their companies to the outside world as well as the Nigerian local content drive.
He said so many bad stories had been projected to the outside world about Nigeria. The forthcoming exhibition, Afe said would be an ample opportunity to project entrepreneurs from Nigeria, especially those in the oil and gas sector.
Key strategic speakers at the conference, it was gathered would include: Minister of Energy, Department of Energy, Republic of South Africa, Jeff Radebe; Ernest Rubondo, Executive Diector, petroleum Authority of Uganda; Telma Ingles, Execuive Manager, Angola LNG Limited; Paul Eardley-Taylor, Head of Oil & Gas Southern Africa, Standard Bank and Lindiwe Mekwe, Acting CEO & General Manager, Petroleum Agency SA.
Others include Austin Avuru, Chief Executive Officer of Seplat Petroleum Company Plc; Dr. Thulani Diamini of Council for Industrial and Scientific Research (CSIR); Igor Hulak, Head of Utilities& Oil & Gas practices in West Africa and many other experts in the industry.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment