Share this on WhatsApp



 
It can be the great operation of the Blaugrana summer. Ivan Rakitic is increasingly tempted by PSG, which seems willing to make a huge investment to hire the Croatian and give them a crack status in their next project. The initial contacts have given way to more formal conversations and on Monday it is considered as a decisive day to know the future of the soccer player.
From the start, Rakitic started the summer with the sole intention of continuing at Barça. The World had revalued it, but it did not have the idea of being in the market. However, the PSG broke in surprisingly and putting all the meat in the spit. Rakitic, in the face of this great interest, has not had another option but at least to consider a possible solution.
The player is thinking about it and at the beginning of next week he will choose to give PSG the green light or he prefers to stay at Barça, where he is a key player and his coach considers him a fundamental player.
The arguments of the PSG to attract Rakitic can be very convincing for the player. In Paris he would have a star rating from the first day and at the football level he could develop his talent much more. In Barça he does an enormous job and many times he can look little to fulfill his obligations. In contrast, in the PSG would be a first sword with all of the law.
In addition, at 30 years would have the opportunity to sign an astronomical contract. The figures of the PSG would be much higher than those currently perceived in the Blaugrana table and this is a factor also to assess for the player, who has won at the sport level with Barca and in the World Cup was runner-up with the Croatian team.
Rakitic would benefit and the Blaugrana club would also receive an unexpected amount that would give a very important economic boost. Barça does not want to sell to Rakitic, but it can reach a point where the offer will be irrevocable.
If the proposal is confirmed close to 90 million euros and the footballer opens the exit door, the business will be round for all parties and will probably end up being a reality. Rakitic is a basic footballer for Valverde, although in the center of the field there are solutions and there is still time to resort to the market.
In any case, the footballer has taken some time to reflect and the PSG is waiting patiently. To be sure that Rakitic is committed to the change of air, would make his offer official and Barca could accept. The weekend will continue the conversations and any scenario is possible from Monday.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment