Share this on WhatsApp



Kemi Adeosun, Nigeria’s Minister of Finance, has made the disclosure that the Federal Government has so far recovered N11.6 billion so far from the tips received since the launch of Whistle blower Policy.
The minister made this known while speaking at the fifth Bureau of Public Service Reform (BPSR) Lunch Time Seminar, with the theme: ‘The Whistleblower Policy and its Implications for Public Servants’.
In the course of the programme, Adeosun stressed that out of the 5,000 tips received, the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration has only acted on 365, and that N375.8 million has so far been paid to 20 whistleblowers who provided information that led to the recovery.
The Federal Government had launched the Whistle Blowing policy. The policy aims at encouraging anyone in the possession of information that revolves around corruption to report it for investigation.
 According to the minister, the council approved a payment of not more than five per cent of the recovered loot to any successful whistle blower.
 It would be recalled that in December, 2017, the Federal Government made a part payment of finder’s fee to an Ikoyi whistleblower. Lawyer to the whistleblower, Yakubu Galadima confirmed this in an interview.
 There had been a back and forth argument between the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and lawyer to the whistle blower as to his actual payment. EFCC Chairman, Ibrahim Magu on the sidelines of a conference confirmed that the whistleblower had been paid.
 Magu later recanted the statement.
 Galadima, denied his client had been paid as he had been footing his expenses. He also threatened to sue the Federal Government on his behalf. Minister of Finance Kemi Adeosun then doused the furore with a statement that his payment was being processed.
 The EFCC had in April 2017, stormed an apartment on Osborne road, Ikoyi where $43 million, N23.2 million and £27,800 ) was recovered.
 Investigations revealed that the apartment belonged to the Folashade Oke, wife of Ambassador Oke Director Genera (DG) of the Nigerian Intelligence Agency (NIA). The NIA then claimed the funds recovered where for a covert operation.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment