Share this on WhatsApp















Prophesies Saraki’ll win 2019 Presidential election




A Prophet has revealed that all plots to remove Senate President Abubakar Bukola Saraki will fail; declaring that nobody can remove Saraki. The Prophet, however, cautioned the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to its house in order. He further prophesied that Saraki would win the 2019 presidential election if the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gives him the ticket.
National Daily gathered that Founder of INRI Evangelical Spiritual Church, Primate Elijah Ayodele, on Wednesday in Ikere-Ekiti, Ekiti State, prophesied that the President of Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, would defeat President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to win the 2019 presidential election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
Primate Ayodele revealing the prophesy in Ikere-Ekiti at an empowerment programme in memory of his late father, Elder Olalekan Ayodele, who died 15 years ago, also disclosed that he sees storms in 2019, he however, gave the relief that the country would still survive the upheaval period.
The Primate cautioned that the crisis ravaging the National Assembly, if not mitigated, could degenerate to collapse of democracy in Nigeria.
He observed that former Vice President Atiku Abubakar may not go far in the presidential race.
“Whatever they are doing in the Senate or in government that is their own problem.
“I have said that nobody can remove Saraki, I don’t know Saraki, I have not met Saraki and I don’t know Senator Akpabio. The issue of Saraki, I am not interested because I am not a politician.
“Who is that politician that is not corrupt; and who is that politician that does not steal money? Saraki is one of the anointed persons in this country. I don’t see Atiku going too far.
“I am not defending Saraki but if Saraki is removed, PDP will sink and if PDP wants to move forward and Saraki having the ticket, PDP will win.”
The Prophet admonished that the 2019 general elections will be tougher than 2015 elections.









































Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment