Share this on WhatsApp



By Odunewu Segun

The anticipated defection of Senator Godwills Akpabio from the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) made headlines last week, coupled with his visit to President Muhammadu Buhari in London, many have been wondering what he would bring to the table.

Akpabio’s defection is coming at a time the ruling party has suffered severe loss, both at the national assembly and at the various states. In what began like a purge, the party first lost 15 senators before 37 members of the House of Representatives followed suit and then governors of Benue, Kwara and Sokoto – all within two weeks!

With the ruling party at the receiving end now, a move as that of Akpabio’s could offer a temporary relief and, as best captured in the words of Lai Mohammed, could mean a one-one goalless draw for both parties.

Akpabio’s defection is the equivalent of one of those once-in-a-while type shaking the transfer market; big money and numerous caps to his name. He comes with loads of experience in the kind of politics the APC needs ahead of the election.

With his influence in the senate, the APC might as well be on its way to regaining the leadership of the upper legislative chamber – and maybe, having its way into the south-south.

The consolation makes more meaning with the circumstances surrounding the move brought into the picture. Unlike the case of other politicians whose defections were foreseen, no one anticipated that of Akpabio; not the PDP in the very least. And not when the party is seeking to cement its foundation ahead of the 2019 election.

Like in the case of Saraki, the senator’s defection is certainly going to reflect in the political rhythm of Akwa Ibom where he has a strong base. There is no doubt Akpabio remains one of the key political figures in Akwa Ibom, and arguably the most prominent governor the state has had.

Since moving to the senate in 2015, he still dictates, to a large extent, how things play out in the state’s political theatre and enjoys massive support from both Akwa Ibom citizens and lots of other Nigerians.

Coincidentally, Akpabio currently leads the PDP lawmakers in the upper legislative chamber; a position he has been in with unquestionable allegiance and loyalty from his party members. His strong influence over his colleagues in the opposition party is in place without doubt, coupled with the fact that he is also well respected across party lines.

When he eventually decamps to APC, he might join hands with other top-ranking APC senators to oversee the alleged plot to impeach Saraki and ensure the APC regains its lead in the red chamber. With his street-smart intelligence, who knows, the senator might as well end up as the senate president if the plot eventually sees the light of the day, assuming he has the backing of the party on this.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment