Share this on WhatsApp



The Liverpool boss was left furious after Ramos’ challenge on star man Mohamed Salah saw the latter hobble off in their Champions League final defeat to Real Madrid back in May.
Los Blancos went onto lift the famous trophy for a third successive season after winning 3-1 in Kiev, but Klopp was quick to criticise Ramos’ “ruthless and brutal” tackle on Salah.
And now the Spain captain has hit back, saying: “Some of us have been operating at a very high level for many years, I’m not sure he can say the same.
Mohamed Salah’s Champions League final ended early after this challenge by Sergio Ramos
“It’s not the first final [Klopp] has lost, he should stick to his own business.”
Klopp’s record in cup finals as a manager
2012 German Cup final: Borussia Dortmund 5-2 Bayern Munich
Klopp’s sole cup-final win came against Dortmund’s bitter rivals in the first of his managerial career back in 2012.
Dortmund had clinched the Bundesliga title a few weeks earlier and thrashed Bayern at the Olympic Stadium to taste cup success too, with goals from Shinji Kagawa, Mats Hummels and a Robert Lewandowski hat-trick sealing the win.
2013 Champions League final: Borussia Dortmund 1-2 Bayern Munich
A year later Bayern got their revenge on Klopp and Dortmund, however, in an all-German Champions League final at Wembley.
Mario Mandzukic gave Bayern the lead before Ilkay Gundogan levelled things up from the spot, but that was before Arjen Robben struck the winner two minutes from time.
2014 German Cup final: Borussia Dortmund 0-2 Bayern Munich
Klopp’s men had beaten Pep Guardiola’s Bayern in their previous Bundesliga meeting, yet it was to be that was until Klopp’s men collapsed in the second half at the St Jakop-Park and Sevilla romped home to victory.
2018 Champions League final: Liverpool 1-3 Real Madrid
Klopp’s seventh cup final ended in familiar disappointment. Salah was forced off through injury after that infamous tussle with Ramos, Loris Karius made two howlers and Gareth Bale produced one of the greatest Champions League goals of all time in a comprehensive win for Los Blancos.
2015 German Cup final: Borussia Dortmund 1-3 Wolfsburg
In his final season at Dortmund, in which they finished all the way down in seventh place, Klopp signed off with another cup final defeat.
Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang initially gave them the lead but Wolfsburg sparked a famous comeback, with Kevin De Bruyne among the scorers.
2016 League Cup final: Liverpool 1-1 Manchester City (City win 3-1 on penalties)
Klopp’s Liverpool had trounced City 4-1 at the Etihad in the Premier League, however they were to be undone by Willy Caballero in a dramatic penalty shootout after Philippe Coutinho had cancelled out Fernandinho’s opener.
2016 Europa League final: Liverpool 1-3 Sevilla
The Reds saw off arch-rivals Manchester United on their way to the final, and it seemed they had one hand on the trophy when Daniel Sturridge fired them in front in Basel.
That was until Klopp’s men collapsed in the second half at the St Jakop-Park and Sevilla romped home to victory.
2018 Champions League final: Liverpool 1-3 Real Madrid
Klopp’s seventh cup final ended in familiar disappointment. Salah was forced off through injury after that infamous tussle with Ramos, Loris Karius made two howlers and Gareth Bale produced one of the greatest Champions League goals of all time in a comprehensive win for Los Blancos.
The former Borrusia Dortmund tactician will be hoping to claim major trophies  this season after a busy , favourable summer transfers bringing in Fabinho, Shaqiri, Nabil Keita, Allison to the star studded team that boast the likes of Salah, Mane, Firminho, Virgil.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment