Share this on WhatsApp



 
Since his return from a 10-day vocation abroad last Saturday, President Muhammadu Buhari has remained silent over the desperate plot to remove Saraki by the All Progressives Congress (APC) leadership following his defection to the opposition.
Regardless to the position of the APC Chairman Adams Oshiomhole, that Saraki must resign or be impeached as Senate President, Buhari was silent on whether or not he (Saraki) should continue in office.
Recall that the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue, Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto, Abdulfathah Ahmed of Kwara state and some members of the National and State Houses of Assembly had defected from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP).
Similarly, Senator Godswill Akpabio, the Senate minority leader had resigned his position in the upper legislative chamber and defected to the APC after his visit to President Buhari in London.
Speaking at a lunch with some APC governors, members of the national and state assemblies and commissioners in Daura on Thursday, August 23, 2018, President Buhari wished the defectors “good luck.”
“For those who have decided to change camp for whatever reason, we wish them good luck,” Buhari said.
Buhari noted that the combined efforts of defectors and their backers in the opposition would not distract his administration from the good work it is doing for the benefit and development of Nigeria.
‘We are always encouraged when all our constituents are happy with the work we are doing and our genuine efforts to make sure that what we campaigned for in 2015 is still very much in our minds and we have not lost focus.
‘‘In terms of security, economy and the fight against corruption, we have maintained focus. Even the opposition with all their resources cannot fault our identification of Nigeria’s priorities and the efforts being made to better them.
‘‘We will continue to do what we ought to do in the leadership position God has placed us and we thank the constituents for the support,’’ he said.
In his remarks, the leader of the delegation and chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum, Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, commended the president for his great efforts in keeping the nation together through visionary leadership.
He noted that President Buhari had remained focused and unshaken by situations and circumstances, adding that ‘‘it shows that your administration is approved by God.’’
Okorocha told the president: ‘‘we are here to encourage you to keep doing what you are doing you as Nigerians are very pleased with you.
‘‘We also want to inform you that we had wonderful and peaceful Sallah celebration across the country because of security of lives and property you have guaranteed in our nation.’’
Governor Okorocha was accompanied by the Governors of Katsina, Kebbi, Kano and Niger States. Kaduna Central lawmaker, Senator Shehu Sani, also made the cut.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment