Share this on WhatsApp



National leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu took former President Olusegun Obasanjo to the cleaners on Tuesday over the latter’s frequent attack on President Muhammadu Buhari.
Recall that in recent times, Chief Obasanjo has somehow become a rallying point for the opposition in the country. He has openly criticized the current administration, saying the administration lacked focus.
When Obasanjo in his famous letter earlier in the year, launched the salvo against President Buhari and his government, observers of Obasanjo’s fortunes in the annals of Nigeria’s politics saw it as foreboding trouble for Buhari and his government.
But while addressing party members at a stakeholders meeting in Lagos on Tuesday, Tinubu asked the ex-President to leave President Buhari alone, adding that he (Obasanjo) could not stop Nigerians from reelecting Buhari in 2019.
He condemned “frequent attacks” on the current administration by the former president, saying the criticisms of Obasanjo were in bad faith.
“Our president, President Muhammadu Buhari has done well, he deserves another term, and we will support him to win because he is our man,” he said.
“Forget about Obasanjo’s letter and his frequent attacks on our president, he cannot stop the president because Nigerians would re-elect him.
“Obasanjo has spent his own time; he should leave Buhari alone and face his business because he cannot tell us who to vote for.
“He is part of some of the challenges we are facing in the country today, because he did not lay the right foundation when he was president.”
Tinubu added that the exit of some members of the APC would also not stop the reelection of Buhari, saying the party was unshaken by the defections and was on course to recording victories in the 2019 election.
He said the results of the bye-elections in Kogi, Katsina and Bauchi states, in which the APC was victorious, were a “precursor to the pattern of the general election”.
“I congratulate the winners in the election and their victory is proof that our party is getting more popular by the day,” he said.
“Those who want to defect can defect, that is their problem. APC remains unshaken and these people will know the reality in the elections.”
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment