Share this on WhatsApp



By SUNDAY ODIBASHI
The leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akwa Ibom State, Senator Godswill Akpabio, predecessor of incumbent Governor Udom Emmanuel, has developed palpable phobia as the incumbent Governor threatens to open the book of the secrets of his eight years administration while in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Perhaps, the former governor has no confidence he left credible legacy in the state, thus, the singular political tool which could provide strong communication tool to expose records of the former governor’s administration turned a serious threat compelling the senator to recant his earlier critiques of Governor Emmanuel, including his vaunts to oust him in 2019.
Apparently, the battle for Akwa Ibom State in the 2019 elections is becoming fierce as the buildup garner momentum.
National Daily gathered that Governor Udom Emmanuel, at a grand rally at the Onna Township Stadium, Eket, on Monday where he was endorsed by the people of Eket Senatorial District for second term, threatened to expose facts and figures about Akpabio’s administration if he is so challenged.
“I have heard things, and I want to challenge any who thinks he has the truth to come out; I will use my personal money to hire CNN and other international media, AIT, Channels, NTA and AKBC, let’s present facts to Nigerians, let’s see who would tell the truth and who will also tell a lie,” Governor Emmanuel had declared.
Subsequently, Senator Akpabio, representing Akwa Ibom North West District in the National Assembly, aptly refuted reports that he told his supporters at a rally on Sunday at Ikot Ekpene that “Udom (Emmanuel) is a mistake that must be corrected in 2019”.
The Senator was further reported to have declared that the APC would take over Akwa Ibom in 2019 in the manner that Adolf Hitler invaded Poland.
Former Senator Anietie Okon, at the mega rally on Monday, Onna, was said to have fired back at Senator Akpabio.
The salvo compelled Senator Akpabio to, in an urgent statement on Monday by Anietie Ekong, his Media Aide, declared inter alia: “The attention of His Excellency, Senator Godswill Akpabio, CON, has been drawn to a speech by Senator Anietie Okon at a purported mega rally at Onna, the home Local Government Area of Governor Udom Emmanuel, insinuating that Senator Akpabio said that Udom Emmanuel was a mistake in 2015.
“We state categorically that such assertion never came from Senator Akpabio.
“Senator Akpabio is now an APC chieftain; hence, the likes of Senator Okon should concentrate their energy on marketing their party – the PDP, instead of continually using falsehood to drive a wedge between Governor Udom Emmanuel and his predecessor.”
When the report was published in the PUNCH, the senator and his aides did not deny it until it became controversial in the state and a subject of credibility threat.
However, Governor Emmanuel, a the Monday mega rally in Onna had remarked that Akwa Ibom State has only one senator in the National Assembly, Senator Bassey Albert, speaking for the entire state in the Senate at the moment.
Governor Emmanuel had maintained: “However the issue on ground is Akwa Ibom, it’s about the development of this state, it’s about our children in public schools who are excelling in international competitions; it’s about the price of garri that we have drastically dropped, it’s about the unity of this state which we believe in”.
The incumbent Governor commended stakeholders in Eket Senatorial District for the second term endorsement, assuring that the overwhelming encouragements from all parts of the state has indeed boosted his determination, not just to declare for re-election in 2019 but to do more.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment