Share this on WhatsApp















By Lanre Adesanya

The Lagos State House of Assembly lawmaker representing Epe constituency I,Honourable Abiodun Tobun has counseled political office holders, especially lawmakers to encourage female soccer at the grassroot level, citing that this will improve the  sports status of Nigeria in the nearest future.

Tobun made this appeal at the opening ceremony of the second edition of the Bolanle Ambode female football competition in Epe, charging colleagues to bolster female soccer at the grassroot level in their constituencies.

He said that the time is apt given the recent victory of the Nigeria Falconet over Chinese team, which he describe as an inspirational feat for upcoming female footballers.

“Encouraging female soccer at grassroots level is so germane and important, women have been doing so well on football pitch that you even wonder whether they were men or women, ladies in Epe also know what they are doing and they move ahead straight to get what they want.

“So I want to implore everybody across the state to encourage female soccer in your constituency, let’s organize leagues from the  governments to go round across the state till we get a solid team that will represent the state at the national, that will also fortify the
existing one and we will have the best female football team in the
whole world.

The lawmaker who collaborated with Eye Foundation Hospital also stated his resolve to better the lot of members of his constituency health wise, has he personally bank rolls a
three days free eye clinic

programme in Epe to help numerous constituents battling with eye challenges.
The three segments afforded in the free eye clinic includes; Free eye screening,Free eyes glasses, free eye drops and free cataract surgeries.

Tobun noted while speaking with newsmen at the venue of the eye clinic at Epe Court Hall,Ita –Opo Epe,that sight problem cannot be ignored as it reduce productivity and inhibits functionality of the whole body, which informs why he decide facilitating this edition. Adding that,“the previous edition catered for five thousand constituents but this
one is unlimited “.

“The eye is so central and important to the body for proper coordination and movement, those with eyes challenge are numerous but don’t have the funds for proper management of their health and well being.

 “This programme is for them to be freely screened and if they need glasses they get it immediately, drugs will also be prescribed and if at all they needed surgery they can be operated in their hospital theatre”. Tobun said.

Many of the people who are affected were seen trouping into the venue as they receive number tags to instill order in the scheme, they then took turn to see the specialists on ground to attend to their eye health needs.

One of the beneficiaries who appreciated the getsure, at the venue, Mr. Yaya Oguntimehin noted that he has been battling with the eye challenge for two years now.

“It is two years since I have been frequenting general hospital for treatment of this ailment but here today, I was given better attention, previously I have been using a particular drug once daily but the specialist having screened the eye made better prescription, that I should rather use it twice a day to aid efficiency and quick recovery.















Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment