Share this on WhatsApp




Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, Yusuf Olaniyonu has said a million of Adams Oshiomhole cannot remove Saraki as Senate President.
In a statement made available to National Daily, Olaniyonu, said the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole and his sponsors are obsessed with Saraki’s removal, and would do anything to see his downfall.
He said it was rather surprising that Oshiomhole is behaving like a rain-beaten chicken, crying all over the place about Dr. Saraki, as if the Senate President is the apparition haunting his life.
He said the Senate President would not like to be involved in any meaningless exchange with the demagogue now in charge of APC. “We found that instead of addressing any issue raised by the Senate President, his press conference merely showcased his obsession and those of his sponsors with Saraki’s removal, which he did without any decorum befitting of his age or his awarded office.”
“It is indeed amazing that the same Oshiomhole, who is now describing Saraki as a politician of no consequence was the same one who only a few months ago was crawling all over the place pleading for Saraki’s support to become chairman. We are sure that those who took him to Saraki several times to plead his case must now be thoroughly embarrassed by his reckless and uncouth manner. ”
Olaniyonu said Oshiomhole, who accused Saraki of not acting in national interest needs to do more to convince Nigerians that his desperate desire to become party chairman is not simply to feed his over-sized ego.
He said the argument of APC that the Senate President must come from a majority party is only supported by ignorance and dangerous delusion.
“We are sure the remaining APC Senators need to do a lot of work to bring Oshiomhole up to speed about parliamentary practice. His ignorance are too clear in his comments about how the Senate was adjourned on July 24, 2018, the distribution of committee chairmanship in the Senate and the difference between the post of Senate President and Minority Leader.”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment