Share this on WhatsApp



The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu State, at the weekend, denied negotiating alliance with the People for Democratic Change (PDC) and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA).in the preparations for 2019 general elections.
National Daily gathered that APC State Chairman in Enugu, Dr. Ben Nwoye, at the official declaration of Nsude Oguejiofor Nnaji for the Enugu North/Enugu South federal constituency ticket for 2019 elections, at Amechi Awkunanaw Community, maintained that the party is not considering alliance with any party in the state, encouraging that party members and the public to disregard such speculation which, he said, “is deceitful and has no basis.”
The State Chairman declared: “We have observed that some National and state Assemblies aspirants who joined our party from PDC and APGA recently, are including the orange and cockerel fowl logo symbols of their former parties in their campaign posters, on the alleged belief that the two opposition parties are entering into alliance with APC in Enugu State.
“I want to use this medium to make it categorically clear that Enugu APC is not discussing any alliance or collaboration deal with PDC or APGA; our party is strong enough to win all elections in 2019, both at the state and national level. So, people should stop deceiving themselves and their supporters. It is either you are in APC or not.
“Again, people should know that political party alliance cannot be discussed at the state level, it is a national issue, we must try to avoid deception.”
The speculation emanated from some aspirants of the two opposition parties who add their former party’s logo in their campaign posters after they had defected to APC.
Nwoye declared that anybody that wins the party’s ticket for Enugu North/Enugu South federal constituency is as good as having won the election before the election proper because two most prominent politicians in Enugu State, former President of Senate, Chief Ken Nnamani, and Senator Jim Nwobodo, are from the constituency.
“Please the message is very clear; this is the senatorial district and the House of Representatives district of Ken Nnamani (Onwa) and Jim Nwobodo (Anyanwu). So, it’s finished. There is no going back; Nnamani and Nwobodo have access to President Muhammadu Buhari. There is no other political juggernaut presently existing in the entire Enugu State who is bigger than Nnamani and Nwobodo; and this is where they are.
“There is no way in this world that we will give a ticket to anybody in this federal constituency that PDP people will defeat us. Anybody that we give this ticket has already gone to the green chambers, period,” the State Chairman stated.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment