Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) may be heading for another crisis following accusations that defectors from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may be given preferential treatment over those who stayed behind.
Ahmed Markarfi gave this hint on Friday in Kogi when he cautioned the party against giving the returnees preferential treatment, adding that defectors running for offices must compete with others in the party, and earn the tickets the proper way.
Markarfi, a presidential aspirant under the PDP said when the going was rough, most of the party members abandoned PDP, only to return and expect to be treated as royalties.
He said: “Some people when you pinch them like this (touching his arm), they will run to another party. When the going was tough, I stayed on… but you accept them into your house and give them your guest room. Next, they take the Master Bedroom; next, they drive you out of your house. We must not allow this, nor give undue advantage to them, so that we do not alienate our people.
“Modu Sheriff was brought from another party; they said he had three jets; he had billions, but what did he do? He was taking the party down, but I, the ‘bush boy,’ with the support of others, I was able to make members close ranks, and today, we can all see.
“We have many problems confronting us in Nigeria; insecurity, lack of national consensus, hunger, poverty; our economy has gone down, but there are few people benefiting. Nigerians are in lack; they are not able to provide for their families, access good healthcare, and all sorts of deprivation. People are being witch-hunted.
“Some people talk of restructuring, but when they talk of restructuring, they talk of sharing money and resources. I tell you; we need institutional restructuring. “Only Nigerians that can restructure Nigeria. People are asking for restructuring due to lack of belonging, lopsidedness in appointments, the feeling of being cheated, and so on. Who can restructure Nigeria, but Nigerians, with a leader that can be trusted. I offer that and much more.
“What I tell you is that now, if you’re in power, you’re right; if you’re in opposition, you’re wrong. We must get to a level in Nigeria, where if you’re a president, a governor, you can be charged for wrongdoing; not you being in power and witch-hunting every other person. That is turning Nigeria into a ‘Banana Republic’. We must therefore restructure our institutions.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment