Share this on WhatsApp



Members of the PDP in Kwara, on Wednesday announced their defection to the All Progressives Congress just as Sen. President Bukla Saraki and others moved out of the ruling party.
Scores of residents along with the PDP members protested against “the political leadership of the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki”.
The protesters, led by the state PDP chairman Iyiola Oyedepo, marched along some streets in Ilorin, abusing Saraki and the Kwara State Governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed.
They carried placards with different inscriptions condemning what they referred to as “bad governance,” “political hegemony” and “under-development” under Saraki’s political leadership.
The defectors also described Saraki as an “anathema.’’
“I hereby officially announce the exit of our members from PDP to APC,”said Rex Olawoye, the former publicity secretary of the party.
Olawoye, who described Senate President Bukola Saraki as an “anathema,” said PDP members in the state could not work with him.
Olawoye said with the defection, all political structures of the PDP at the ward, local government and state levels had moved to the APC.
The spokesman appealed to all party members to maintain peace and orderliness in their conduct and behaviour.
“Unity is the primary ingredient that can make those of us coming from the PDP and leftover of APC members to live in harmony,” he added.
Olawoye said Oyedepo had met with the leadership of the PDP in Abuja and explained the resolve of party members not to work with Saraki.
He also noted the chairman met with the national leadership of APC, including the National Chairman, Adams Oshiomole, Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, as well as other chieftains of the APC.
According to him, the defecting PDP members were warmly welcomed into the APC by the party’s leadership.
“Saraki and his cronies have been in the saddle of leadership of the state in the past 15 years, with nothing to show for it,’’ Olawoye said.
He urged all registered political parties in the state to team up with the APC to ensure the total liberation of the state.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment