Share this on WhatsApp



By Esther Egbe
James Olayinka started the season on the bench for Arsenal U18s, but there is a chance that the versatile Hale end graduate could make his U23 debut against Sunderland at Emirates Stadium recently, National Daily learnt.
Olayinka has impressed Arsenal U18s coach Kwame Ampadu with his workrate and his adaptability, with the youngster, who recently turned 17, having featured as a central midfielder and on either flank so far this season.
Like many of Arsenal’s standout prospects, James is excellent technically. He also possesses an impressive tactical understanding of the game and, despite being an attack minded player, is usually switched on defensively.
Olayinka was an unused substitute as Arsenal U23s lost to Everton last month and he could be involved in some capacity tonight with Charlie Gilmour suspended and several players likely to be rested due to the first-team’s Europa League commitments.
Sunderland have named a strong side in recent U23 games, with the likes of Jack Rodwell, Duncan Watmore and Paddy McNair featuring and it would certainly be a beneficial experience for James to face players who have played in the Premier League.
If Olayinka is involved then it will also be interesting to see how he fares in a 3-4-2-1 system, with the prospect having only played in a 4-2-3-1 formation for the U18s. His versatility means he could be comfortable in several positions in a 3-4-2-1, but he would most likely be deployed as one of the two players behind the striker.
So far this campaign he has scored twice for the U18s and he will now be aiming to take that form onto a bigger stage in a game where Arsene Wenger could well be in attendance.
The central midfielder has been at Arsenal since the age of seven and, having progressed steadily through the ranks at the club, he could soon be about to make the next step up. Given how he has developed so far, it wouldn’t be a surprise if he was to seize his opportunity.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment