Gov> Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos state
        Share this on WhatsApp



Governor. Akinwunmi Ambode has described as absolute falsehood a report circulating on social media that he was making moves against non-indigenes, especially the Igbos residing in Lagos state.
In a statement by the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Kehinde Bamigbetan, the governor said the report was figment of the imagination of “unscrupulous persons” who concocted it.
Recall that a report on the social media had alleged that the governor had outlawed the position of Eze Ndi-Igbo in Lagos and was making other moves against non-indigenes.
“Gov. Ambode had clearly emphasised at the inception of his administration that he would run a government of inclusion regardless of tribe, colour or creed, which he had not only adhered to, but also sustained it.
“While we would have opted to totally ignore such crass report, we have chosen to set the records straight for unsuspecting members of the public who might be tempted to believe such falsehood.
He said there was no record anywhere of the governor making such remarks, daring the faceless authors to come out with any evidence otherwise.
“This is certainly the handiwork of enemies of Lagos State whose sole aim is to distort the existing harmonious relationship among ethnic groups in the state.
“They have totally failed in this attempt. Besides, in this season of politics, it is expected that those seeking to gain mileage will stop at nothing and cling to any straw just to score cheap points.
“Indeed, the governor, precisely in his inauguration speech had stated emphatically that I shall run an open government of inclusion that will not leave anyone behind.
“No matter your age, sex, tribe or any other status, as long as you reside in Lagos, we will make Lagos work for you.
“The governor has not only lived up to that, but has also sustained it and every Lagosian can attest to it,” Bamigbetan said in a statement.
He, however, urged the public to disregard the report in its entirety.
Bamigbetan urged security agencies to go all out and investigate the “mischief makers” behind it and mete out appropriate sanctions on them in accordance with the law.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment