National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole flanked by party leaders in Abuja
        Share this on WhatsApp



The All Progressives Congress (APC) has listed the sins of Senate President Bukola Saraki, urging Nigerians to be wary of a man whose personal ambition will always supersede that of national interest.
In a statement made available to National Daily on Monday, APC’s acting publicity secretary, Yekini Nabena listed some allegations against Saraki, saying that he would fail an integrity test to run for Nigeria’s presidency.
“Against the backdrop of the litany of corruption allegations trailing the Senate president, Saraki’s declaration, brings to the fore our earlier call to anti-graft agencies to check the use of stolen public funds to finance elections in this country. We reiterate our position that the Nigerian electorate must have the opportunity to choose from candidates that can pass the integrity and anti-corruption test.”
In the statement, ten allegations were leveled against Saraki, the first being the allegation of fraud which led to the collapse of the Saraki family-owned Société Générale Bank (Bukola Saraki who was Director of the defunct bank was indicted over N1bn alleged to have been looted from the bank’s treasury).
He was also accused of misappropriating Kwara state funds, disregard of government due process and conversion of State government assets into his and cronies when he served as two-term governor of Kwara State.
The party also alleged that Saraki was questioned by the Nigeria Police Special Fraud Unit over a N11 billion financial scandal at the defunct Intercontinental Bank.
“The multi-million dollar white elephant Shonga Agricultural Project in Kwara State when Saraki served as two-term governor and falsification of Senate standing order,” the statement stated.
In the statement, Nabena alleged that Saraki was also linked to the N298m armored Range Rover SUV seized by the Nigeria Customs Service as well as the  link to $19.5b Paris Club Loan refund scandal
He said: “While Saraki refuses to reconvene the National Assembly, the 2019 election budget of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is dangerously delayed, an action deliberately taken to sabotage INEC’s ability to conduct free, fair, transparent and credible elections in 2019.
He said as the 2019 elections draw near, Nigerians must ensure to never again entrust the leadership of the country to thieves whose sole aim is treasury looting and returning the country to the dark ages where impunity and institutionalized corruption was the order of the day.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment