Share this on WhatsApp



 
Muhammed Mukaila, who reportedly trekked a long distance to celebrate the emergence of the President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015, has expressed regrets over his action.
Mukaila who spoke with journalists in Lagos on Thursday, announced the commencement of “Anger Trek” from Lagos to Abuja, saying he decided on the action to prove that the youth are angry with the Buhari-led administration for “failing” to keep its promises.
Carrying a coffin with R.I.P All Progressives Congress (APC) written on it, he said he would not vote for anybody from the ruling party.
“Actually, I’m here to show my disappointment with this present government of APC. I knew Buhari then, I thought he was who I knew but when he came in, I saw a different thing,” he said.
According to him, youths in the country are very angry with the APC-led administration in the country. “We are disappointed with this present government. This government is dead, APC is dead.”
He said the campaign in 2015, APC promised Nigerians heaven on earth.  “the promised 3million jobs in a year which they could not even give us 5000 jobs in a year; they promised to return fuel to N45 per litre but it is now N145; they promised a dollar will be equal to a naira, dollar is N360-N400 now. So we say no more APC, we say no to APC again.”
“I trekked during the Buhari victory to celebrate it because we thought we had a change in the government but we are disappointed. Now, I’m working to show the whole nation that we say no more APC and to appreciate those leaders that mean well for the youth.”
When asked if the anger trek was politically motivated, he replied “I am not in anyone’s pocket”.
“I’m trekking from here to Abuja where I’m going to deposit the coffin in the mortuary; this is the body of APC as you can see. It’s going to take me 18-20 days to get to Abuja. And I’m very okay healthwise because I heard that after I trekked in 2015, some people said I fell sick but I wasn’t. I was okay, very Okay. There’s nothing wrong with me.”
“When I trekked for APC then, I didn’t ask them to do anything for me, all I’m asking APC for is to put Nigeria in order, and the youth should be employed.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment