Share this on WhatsApp



The Chairman of Lagos SWAN and Deputy Chairman Lagos Media Marathon, Debo Oshundun, over the weekend told journalists that the aim of the Lagos Media Marathon is to assist the Lagos State Government and our amiable Governor Akinwunmi Ambode achieve another first in global sports in Nigeria, Africa and even the world,National Daily learnt.
“Apart from media pre-races which serve as build up to the main events like marathons and mountain races, our research has shown that the Lagos Media Marathon is the first of its kind in Nigeria and Africa. We are also yet to see anywhere in the world where media practitioners organize a marathon similar to the Comrade Marathon organized by miners in Durban, South Africa.
“So, a successful organization of the Lagos Media Marathon in December 2018 will be a feat, not just for Lagos NUJ but for the Lagos State Government and Governor Ambode, who revived the international marathon culture in Nigeria shortly after he came into office through the approval of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon in 2015’’.
Oshundun said the first two editions of the race in 2016 and 2017 earned it the prestigious IAAF Bronze Label, “That is why we are working with Lagos State to achievement another first. We have met with the Commissioner of Tourism, Arts and Culture and Executive Chairman of the Lagos State Sports Commission and the Lagos NUJ Chairman and Organizing Committee. We hope to meet with Governor Ambode soon for his endorsement of the race and Run Lagos with the Media initiative.
Oshundun revealed that many international journalists from Europe and Africa have indicated interest in the race, “ but we also intend to invite presidents of international media organizations like IPU and AIPS and all the media owners in Nigeria to join us at the Ikeja New Terminus, the proposed finish point for the race’’.
The Chairman of Lagos SWAN said the finish will be carnival like and many top musicians will perform, “there will also be exhibitions by companies especially media owners, there will also be training on media ethics, especially fact checking and sociological implications of news and new media’’. said Oshundun.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment