Share this on WhatsApp



Richards Adeniyi

Up to N3.8 trillion has been lost through crude oil theft in the past two years with government’s share of the loss amounting to N1.6 trillion, the Nigeria Natural Resource Charter (NNRC) revealed in its latest ‘Oil Theft in Nigeria Report’.
Poverty, unemployment, poor governance, pervasive corruption and the neglect of the Niger Delta region were identified as the major reasons for the resurgence and sustenance of oil theft over time, according to the NNRC report.
 It also stated that the estimated value of the total losses suffered by Nigeria through the various methods of crude oil theft in the Niger Delta was higher than the current combined allocations for health and education as captured in the 2018 budget.
The NNRC is a non-governmental organisation that provides policy options to guide governments and societies in their use of natural resources to ensure maximum and sustainable returns for the citizens.
With the combined allocations for health and education amounting to N189.4 billion, it represents a mere 8.4 per cent of the estimated value of losses from oil theft two years ago, the organisation said.
It stated that in 2016, reports by both the government and oil companies indicated that a combined total of up to N3.8 trillion was recorded as the amount lost to crude oil theft, sabotage and pipeline vandalism.
It noted that this was principally as a result of the force majeure declared at the Forcados terminal, combined with wider pipeline infractions and theft, adding that the government’s share of the loss was approximately 42 per cent or about N1.6 trillion.
“The Nigerian government passed a record budget of N9.12 trillion, with a revenue target of N7.2 trillion, most of which it aims to achieve from the petroleum sector. Therefore, at a time when the country has just exited recession and the economy remains fragile, with national debt on the rise, reducing oil theft should clearly be an urgent national priority.”
The NNRC observed that although oil theft was as old as the sector in Nigeria, the level of pilfering remained insignificant up until the 1970s.
The report added, “However, as the stakes got higher over time, and with global oil prices rising above $100 a barrel in the early 2000s, oil theft evolved into a cottage industry, creating consequential socio-economic problems.
“Over the last decade, oil theft has risen to unprecedented levels, peaking between 2011 and 2014. The inability of the government and oil companies to curb this epidemic has made Nigeria the country most plagued by oil theft in the world” the report stated.
The Nigerian government need to do something about this to stem the tide in the future

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment