Share this on WhatsApp



The displaced president of Nigeria Football Federation, Ambassador Chris Giwa has reiterated that nobody wants the country suspended by FIFA from global football activities, contrary to insinuations by some persons.
Amb. Giwa argued that Nigeria has not erred in anyway to deserve any sanctions from the global football governing body, despite its threat to axe the country.
“In any case, nobody wants Nigeria to be suspended or banned, as efforts are being made to avoid it, even as we know some people instigated it.”
” We hope to resolve this unfortunate development caused by people, who think they are bigger than the country and its laws, but no matter how far they go, the long arm of the law will catch up with them, some day”he pointed out.
He further stated : ” It’s unfortunate that the government has been dragged into this whole leadership tussle, even when it was glaring it had no involvement in the crisis,but it suits the narrative of those beating the drum of FIFA ban”
Amb. Giwa noted: “We hope all this will be resolved, and the country, comes out the winner, as against the posturing of ‘we can do without the government’ because sports cannot grow and develop without the active involvement of government of Nigeria”
“For the avoidance of doubt, Nigeria has not done anything to deserve any suspension because, the law of natural justice expects you hear from parties in disputes and not just from one party. Even an armed robber caught in the act is also given a fair hearing, but regrettably FIFA has failed to do in this instance, ”
The NFF President expressed disappointment with misinformation in some quarters that the August 26th,2014 congress was not an elective congress.” In November 2013 in Warri, the road map for the 2014 election was drawn with 26th August, 2014 as date for elective congress and the electoral and appeals committees for the election constituted. If the date was to be changed, there are procedures, and if the election was flawed in any way, there is an appeals committee. Why should people continue to deceive and misinform Nigerians”.
” We must not forget when one of the most successful NFF President, Aminu Maigari resigned, his first Vice President, Chief Mike Umeh took over power ahead of the August  26, 2014 elective congress, which Umeh was a co-contestant, with Amb. Chris Giwa. Chief Umeh also coordinated  the emergency and  elective congresses in Warri that produced Amaju Pinnick group, despite the restriction by the Federal High court against the 30th September, 2014 election,” Amb. Giwa further explained.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment