Share this on WhatsApp



By Chioma Obinagwam
As part of its commitment towards strengthening good governance and health in Nigeria, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has recently announced additional development assistance summing up to $1.1 billion.
“The additional new funding brings the total U.S. government assistance provided under the five-year Development Objectives agreement to $1.1 billion,” the consulate disclosed.
The funds, as indicated in a statement released by the U.S Consulate, is aimed at achieving the development goals outlined in the bilateral Development Objectives Assistance Agreement between the U.S. and Nigerian governments signed in 2015.
A breakdown of the new funding, the statement disclosed, showed that $25 million will strengthen good governance by supporting state governments’ efforts to bolster Nigeria’s Open Government Partnership commitments to improve transparency and fight corruption.
An additional $1.5 million will support a healthier, more educated population in targeted states through the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), for a total of $26.5 million in additional assistance.
USAID is also partnering with federal and state health ministries to build stronger health systems with the aim of guaranteeing equitable access to quality healthcare services nationwide.
“The United States believes that as the most populous country in Africa, with the largest economy on the continent, Nigeria holds tremendous influence over the future of Africa,” Acting Mission Director Erin Holleran said.
“USAID is committed to partnering with the government and the people of Nigeria to address its development challenges,” he added.
USAID collaborated with Nigeria’s ministries of Budget and National Planning, Health, Agriculture, Power, and Education, as well as state-level government counterparts to structure the bilateral assistance agreement, which runs through 2020.
Senior Correspondent,
National Daily Newspapers,
e-mail: chiomaobina@yahoo.com
Mobile: +234 8022227051
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment