Share this on WhatsApp



The All Progressivwes Congress (APC) controlled-Federal Government on Friday released a list of selected alleged looters of the national treasury under the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan.
The Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, at a press conference in Lagos, said:“The PDP has challenged us to name the looters under their watch. They said they did not loot the treasury. Well, I am sure they know that the treasury was looted dry under their watch. Yet they decided to grandstand. This shows the hollowness of their apology.”
According to Lai Mohammed, the alleged looters are:
PDP Chairman Uche Secondus.
Allegation: On the 19th of Feb 2015, he took N200 million only from the office of the NSA.
Former PDP Financial Secretary.
Allegation: On the 24th of Oct 2014, he took N600 million only from the office of former NSA.
Former National Publicity Secretary Olisah Metuh.
Allegation: On trial for allegedly collecting N1.4bn from the office of former NSA.
Dr Raymond Dokpesi, Chairman of DAAR Communications.
Allegation: On trial for allegedly taking N2.1 billion from the office of the former NSA.
Former SSA to President Goodluck Jonathan, Dudafa Waripamo-Owei,
Allegation: on trial, over N830 million allegedly kept in accounts of four different companies.
Former President Goodluck Jonathan’s Cousin Robert Azibaola.
Allegation: On Thursday, a Federal High Court ruled that he has a case to answer for allegedly collecting $40 million from the office of former NSA.
He stated: “They are in court and the records are available. Some of the people on this list are seeking to plea bargain, and that is a fact.
“We insist that Nigeria was looted blind under the watch of the PDP and that the starting point in tendering an apology is for them to return the loot.
“We will not stop talking about the massive looting by the PDP. They brought Nigeria to this sorry pass. We are now looking around for loans to build infrastructure, and they ask us not to talk about it. We will talk about it.”
However, the names and graft allegations declared by the APC government relate more campaign fund disbursements in the 2015 general; elections, the same accusations the APC government used to blackmail the PDP in the $2.1 billion arms deal scam.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment