Share this on WhatsApp

 
An attention-seeking serial liar who made up bogus rape and sex assault claims against 15 men in just three years has been found guilty for telling “appalling” mistruths.

British woman Jemma Beale’s complaints led to Mahad Cassim serving two years in jail for having sex with her after she claimed to be a lesbian with “no desire” for men.

The 25-year-old told police Mr. Cassim raped her after offering to give her a lift home — but in fact she got out of the car and told him: “Get your pants down.”

Beale, who had said in a victim impact statement “I feel that any sentence he receives will never reflect the life sentence that he gave me” was then awarded £11,000 (AU$18,800) in compensation while Mr. Cassim languished behind bars.

She claimed two strangers sexually assaulted her close to her home in Ashford, Middlesex, before she was put through another gang rape attack by four others two months later.

Two of the men identified by Beale were arrested and interviewed but never charged.

It wasn’t until police found common discrepancies in her story that they became suspicious that Beale had been lying.

Beale insisted she had been raped but after a five-week trial at Southwark Crown Court a jury of six men and five women took eight hours and 45 minutes to find her guilty.
 
She sat wide-eyed as the verdicts were read out and turned to speak to her parents in the public gallery a number of times.

Judge Nicholas Loraine-Smith ordered psychiatric reports and referred to Beale’s “attention-seeking”, remanding her in custody until her expected sentencing in August.

Detective Sergeant Kevin Lynott, who led the investigation into Beale’s false allegations, said she had been exposed as a “serial liar”.

He said: “Her manipulation of the criminal justice system has caused police to direct significant amounts of resource into investigating her bogus complaints as well as her own 
offending.

“She has also significantly impacted on the NHS as a result of her complaints and used up many other limited resources that are relied upon by genuine survivors.

“Not only had that, but she then gone on to give false testimony at court, which resulted in the wrongful conviction and imprisonment of a completely innocent man.”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment