Share this on WhatsApp

As extension of Oyegun’s tenure generates fresh crisis

The All Progressives Congress (APC) has refuted that it has endorsed President Muhammadu Buhari for second term.
APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, was gathered to have said that the National Executive Committee at the last meeting, on Wednesday, only passed a vote of confidence on President Buhari and the Chief John Odigie-Oyegun-led National Working Committee affirming that the end9oresement did not translate to endorsing the President for a second term.
The publicity secretary maintained that the issue of endorsing the President for a second term did not form part of the discussions at the NEC meeting.
Abdullahi had stated: “You will recall that the Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, addressed this issue while responding to a question on the issue of 2019 at yesterday (Tuesday’s) briefing when he said, the President has not said he wants to contest and that for now, his focus is on the issue of governance, so the issue of endorsing him (President) for a second term in 2019 did not arise.”
APC National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, had earlier on Wednesday remarked that it was normal for party members to express contrary opinions on the decision of the party’s NEC to extend the tenure of party executives at all levels.
Odigie-Oyegun
He was reacting to a question on the views expressed by some party members denouncing the decision to extend the tenure of the APC NEC and party executives at all levels.
Governor State, Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara, had in Abuja, on Tuesday, denounced the tenure extension of the NWC and other executive structures in APC.
Yari had argued: “What has been done is a mere expression of interest. The power of the convention to extend tenure is exercised only by way of constitution amendment. The power of the NEC of our party cannot go beyond doing so by way of constitution amendment.
“Article 30 of the APC Constitution states: ‘This constitution and the schedules hereto, can be amended only by the National Convention of the party.”
APC NEC meeting in Abuja, on Tuesday, had endorsed extension of the tenure of the Odigie-Oyegun-led NWC for one year effect from June 2018 and all elected and appointed party executives at all levels.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment