Share this on WhatsApp
A teenager who beat his former teacher so badly a surgeon said his face looked like a packet of ‘stamped on cornflakes’, has been jailed for five years.
Christian Dawson, 40, was battered with such force by Lucas Mikoliunas his young daughter didn’t know who he was.
A year on from the violent assault, he is still unable to smile at five-year-old Audrey. Yob Mikoliunas, 18, attacked his former teacher because of his ‘born hatred for his old school’, Hull Crown Court was told.
Dad-of-one Mr Dawson, a teacher at Sirius Academy West in Hull, was put in hospital for a week and needed his face to be ‘reset’ after the unprovoked attack outside a garage on March 18 last year. He was left blood-soaked, concussed and temporarily blinded on the pavement.
Reading Mr Dawson’s victim impact statement in court, prosecutor Julia Baggs said: ‘Following the attack, Mr Dawson had to have his face reset and does not yet have feeling back in his lower face and cheeks.
‘He says he cannot yet smile as a result of his injuries. ‘He says when his daughter asks “why I am not smiling when I am happy” – he has to say that “I am smiling with my eyes”.’
The English and Music teacher suffered a crushed nose, shattered cheekbones and eye sockets and his jaw needed realigning. The pain was ‘excruciating’, the court heard.
Surgeons had to lift his facial structure off his face and re-set it with wires, rods and pins and had to have his lips being severed.
The teacher had to sign a consent form before surgery and was warned when he woke up he ‘might be blind’. The attack also brought on depression and anxiety and meant he was unable to sing with his friends in his Kings of Leon tribute band.
Mikoliunas – who was 17 at the time of the attack – was convicted of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm after a one-day trial at Hull Youth Court in July last year.
He had spotted the teacher in a takeaway in Hull and then waited until he was alone to launch his attack at around 2am.
Mrs Baggs told the court: ‘He turned round to be confronted by four youths. You, Lukas Mikoliunas, were at the front and you then hit Mr Dawson in the face so hard that he saw flashing lights and fell to the pavement, where he was assisted by members of the public.’
The thug had left school with no GCSEs and was already on police bail for stealing alcohol and causing £32,000 of damage during a burglary at a Hull cafe when he attacked
Mr Dawson. Defence barrister Stephen Robinson said: ‘There is very little information I have been given by the defendant as to why he committed the offence.
‘He has been in custody since his failed appeal. He has been assaulted himself while he was in the cells.’
Mikoliunas was jailed at Hull Crown Court for five years, Recorder Tim Roberts, QC, told him: ‘This attack was born out of hatred for your old school.
‘You had an unenviable reputation and seeing a teacher from your old school and one you did not like. ‘You caused a member of the public a gratuitous injury and you are a danger.’
Mikoliunas was also found in possession of the Latvian identity of ‘Norman Radkis’, but the court heard he had not used it to try to apply for benefits or secure a job.
He was jailed for five years for the attack, with an 18 week sentence for the burglary and 16 week sentence for the identification document to run concurrently.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment