Share this on WhatsApp



President of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, LCCI, Babatunde Ruwase has suggested that implementation of the new Land Use Charge law be suspended in other to sort out the grey areas in the interest of fairness, equity and natural justice.

He gave the suggestion on Friday during a stakeholders’ forum in Lagos.
According to him, there is no evidence to show that adequate dissemination of information to critical stakeholders was followed and conditions stipulated for law review occurred before implementation of the law.

He said stakeholders were concerned that assessed value used for computation of the law was high and difficult to justify.

He appealed to the government to create a tax environment that would be fair, equitable, inclusive, and transparent and investment friendly, adding that sanctions to defaulters under the reviewed land use charge (LUC) of Lagos are too severe and not in tandem with democratic ideals.

He said while the chamber would not encourage or support any form of infractions of the law, the sanctions must be proportional and fair.

According to him, emphasis should be on getting more property into the tax net, rather than imposing additional burden on those currently on the database.

He urged the government to explore the platform presented by VAIDS to capture more property owners into the net.
“All of these have adversely impacted the returns on investment in property market and points to the fact that current market value of property may not necessarily reflect the rental income for the property,” Ruwase said.

Also at the forum, Akinyemi Ashade, Lagos state commissioner for finance, said the law aimed at entrenching a regime of self-assessment, would allow property owners to make their own calculation and know their rate with the help of professional valuers.

According to him, property of N10 million and below constitute 75 percent of property owners in the state and are expected to pay N5000 per annum as land use charge.

Ashade said that the new law also established an assessment appeal tribunal which authorised the adoption of alternative dispute resolution in resolving disputes concerning LUC demand notice provided the appeal was lodged within 30 days after the receipt of the notice.

The new law stipulates a 25 percent increase in charge if payment was not made between 45 and 75 days. It also prescribed a 50 percent increase after 105 days and a 100 percent increase if payment cannot be made between 75 to 105 days.

The law prescribed that a property shall be liable to enforcement if payment is not made after 135 days of notice.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment