Share this on WhatsApp
While the Kogi command of the Nigeria Police was knocking up a press release declaring wanted Kogi Senator Dino Melaye, and six suspects that broke out of custody, the lawmaker was on the floor of the Senate hitting hard at the Force headquarters.
Melaye said the police are plotting a cover-up by either killing the suspects or orchestrating their escape.
“I will sue the IGP for intimidation, abuse of power, harassment and mental assault if these 2 suspects are not produced dead or alive,” he said on the floor of the Senate Wednesday, according to information on the Senate’s Twitter handle.
The fleeing suspects were areested last week, and while being inteerogated, they confessed to kidnappimg and killing, and indicted the senator as their backer–with AK-47 rifles and cash.
Among the suspects was Mohammed Audu, the son of the late Gov. Abubakar Audu who allegedly conspired with the senator to frame up a Kogi official by cooking up an assassination attempt story last year.
Others the police is looking for are Kabiru Seidu a.k.a Osama, Nuhu Salisu a.k.a Small, Aliyu Isa, Adams Suleiman, Emmanuel Audu and Musa Mohammed.
The announcement was made in a statement signed by Kogi police commissioner, Ali Janga, and distributed by the Force Headquarters Wednesday afternoon.
The Wednesday declaration came four days after Melaye petitioned Inspector-General Ibrahim Idrism the Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, Transparency Internatonal, the US. UK, Canada, and Germany.
He alleged of threat by Kogi’s government and police to murder him him extra-judicially.
He said he was willing to submit himself to the police for investigation provided that the Force Headquarters would take over the case.
While he was being declared wanted shortly before noon Wednesday, Mr. Melaye was on the floor of the Senate during which he lambasted the police again and alleged conspiracy against him.
The police has flagged the Interpol, and announced a pending investigation of all officers on duty at the time of the six escape.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment