Share this on WhatsApp


Senator Shehu Sani said the APC restructuring plan is just a campaign for 2019 elections as the ruling party is not prepared to implement any restructuring.

According to the Senator representing Kaduna Central senatorial district, the plans by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to implement restructuring is just a mere form of campaign for the forthcoming 2019 elections.

The senator claimed that Governor El-Rufai of Kaduna state came up with the idea of restructuring just to gain political relevance. He said: “Governor El-Rufai is the chief architect of that committee because he wants political relevance. How can an APC that promised restructuring only think of restructuring when it is a year to an election? Document of that committee is more or less a campaign document for 2018. There will be no restructuring, you can quote me.”

Speaking about the crises in the ruling party, Sani said Tinubu should be given chance to reconcile the aggrieved party members, as instructed by President Muhammadu Buhari.

He, however, said that the ruling party will express a mass defection if Tinubu’s reconciliation fails. He said “…we need to put our ambitions in our pockets and allow the process of reconciliation to continue because reconciliation cannot go on with ambitions and bulldozers. Even, before you have peace in war situations, you must have a ceasefire.

“For now, we are giving a grace of time for Tinubu to succeed. If he succeeds, the outcome of the deliberations will form the roadmap for the future of the party and if he fails, we will simply apply our senses. It is always good to look at the messenger and the message. “I can tell you that if Tinubu fails, there is going to be mass defection from APC.”

Recall that Senator Sani accused Kaduna state governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai of tyranny, describing him as a ‘military administrator.’
The APC lawmaker said this in reaction to the demolition of APC faction secretariat, a building belonging to Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi, in Kaduna state.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment