Share this on WhatsApp
 
Both Zenith and the Ecobank Group are piloting MasterCard’s new initiative of using Facebook Messenger to provide technology to small businesses in Africa to drive affordable acceptance of electronic and mobile payments.

Mastercard had earlier on Thursday at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona announced the new technology, saying the new technology will help small businesses expand to new markets, and unlock financial services and products that enables them to grow their livelihoods.

It disclosed that the Messenger experience will launch in Nigeria, where Mastercard will pilot a new Masterpass QR bot to help business owners’ move beyond cash transactions to accepting QR payments.

According to its Executive Vice President, Digital Channels and Regions, Jorn Lambert, Masterpass QR opens up new commerce channels for these merchants and enables them to create auditable transaction records.

Speaking on the partnership, the Group Executive, Consumer Bank, Ecobank Group, Patrick Akinwuntan said in line with Ecobank goal to serve 100 million Africans by the end of 2020, the bank is delighted to collaborate with Facebook and MasterCard to enable underserved and unbanked micro-merchants with the opportunity to open an Ecobank account almost immediately and begin to receive instant payments using Ecobank Masterpass QR on the Facebook Messenger platform.
 
MD/CEO of Zenith Bank Plc, Peter Amangbo said the partnership with Facebook and Mastercard to introduce Masterpass QR as a means of driving financial inclusion and creating a new payment ecosystem for MSMEs and consumers is a welcome development.

 “This initiative will help us encourage financial inclusion within the country in line with the strategic thrust of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Buyers and sellers now meet and conclude transactions in-store, online and on social media, so we are ensuring payments can also be made on these platforms via QR codes, without having to log onto other solutions or even take a break from what you are doing on Facebook,” Amangbo said.

To get started, businesses can send a request to the bot to enable QR payments, receive approval from the bank, set up an account and start accepting digital payments in a fast, simple and secure manner.

Once the account set up process is complete, business owners can print and display the QR code in their stores or save the code on their phones. Customers can pay by either scanning the code from their smartphone or by entering the merchant ID associated with the QR code into their feature phone.

Launched in 2016, Masterpass QR provides people with any type of mobile phone the ability to safely accept and make in-person purchases without cash or a plastic card.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment