Share this on WhatsApp




The hitman in NURTW recently arrested by the IGP Intelligence Response Team has changed his story following his new-found faith while in detention.
Adeola Williams said he had been lying all along by roping Musiliu Akinsanya aka MC Oluomo and Akanni Olorunwa into the assassination attempt he made on Azeez Adekunle aka Kunle Poly who is chairman of the union in Idunmota, Lagos.
Williams, a gunslinger, who claimed he has killed over a hundred people, however, mistakenly took out Ganiyu Ayinla aka Pinero, the personal assistant to Lawal, on January 23.
“I decided to rope in Olorunwa because he was the one who ruined my life,” he said while being paraded during the week.
“It was my support for him during his fight with MC Oluomo that made me lose my position at the union. After he was removed from office, he had so much money but he was wasting it on women and movie actors and he refused to help me,” he said.
According to him, if Olorunwa had compensated him for staking his life for him in the fight with Oluomo, he would not have been roaming about looking for who to kill.
“ I was just so bitter I made up the story that he paid me N500,000 to kill Kunle Poly. And I also lied that I seized his vehicle because he was owing me a balance of N1m,” said Williiams.
He also decided to rope MC Oluomo because he expected the Lagos ex-chairman of the union to come to his aid after the IRT operatives busted him in February.
But Oluomo didn’t show up.
“I finally decided to come clean and say the truth and give my life to Christ.”
 For a similar reason, he said he also lied earlier that he worked for Prince Kazeem Aletu during the fight between him and Oba Elegushi.
Aletu also refused to help him, and that was why he mentioned his name too.
“But now I am a born-again Christian and I will always say the truth and stand by the truth.”
Part of the truth is the number of victims on his hitlist.
The 39-year-old said assassination has been the source of his livelihood for more than a decade, and he has taken many lives that he can’t even count.
“I have nothing on ground to fall back on despite taking the lives of more than 100 Nigerians as an assassin. May God forgive me.”
He went public as a young criminal when he snatched a wrist watch from the late musician Sikiru Ayinde in 1998.
He went to jail for three years, and when he came out in 2001, he went back to crime—as an assassin. Altogether, he said he has spent over 20 years of his life in crime.
“If I get a chance to regain my freedom in this life, I will never go back to crime again,” he said.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment