Share this on WhatsApp

Brent crude hits $66.26 per barrel




Rising tension in the Middle East pushed up oil prices in the international market on Tuesday, although rising output in the United States and shaky stock markets contain the rising price.
U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude sold at $62.31 a barrel up 25 cents, or 0.4 per cent, from their previous close, while Brent crude futures selling at $66.26 per barrel, up 21 cents, or 0.3 per cent.
Traders pointed to concerns in the Middle East, where the United States may impose sanctions on Iran, as well as tensions between Saudi Arabia and Iran.
Also, about Venezuela’s tumbling crude production further supported oil markets.
The International Energy Agency, (IEA) said last week that Venezuela, where an economic crisis has cut oil production by almost half since early 2005 to well below two million bpd , was “clearly vulnerable to an accelerated decline”, and that such a disruption could tip global markets into deficit.
Falls on global share markets helped cap gains but markets are under pressure from concerns over a possible trade war between the United States and other major economies, as well as from fears of stiffer regulation as Facebook came under fire following reports it allowed improper access to user data.
Also looming over oil markets has been surging U.S. crude oil production , which has risen by more than a fifth since mid-2016, to 10.38 million barrels per day (bpd), pushing it past top exporter Saudi Arabia.
Only Russia produces more, at around 11 million bpd, although U.S. output is expected to overtake Russia’s later this year.
Soaring U.S. output, as well as rising output in Canada and Brazil, is undermining efforts by the Middle East dominated Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, to curb supplies and bolster prices.
Many analysts expect global oil markets to flip from slight undersupply in 2017 and early this year into oversupply later in 2018.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment