Share this on WhatsApp

The World Development Report (WDR) 2018 of the World Bank Group launched today in Abuja has revealed a critical statistic that only 20 per cent of Nigeria young adult who completed primary education can read.

The report with the theme: ‘Learning to Realize Education’s Promise’ co-launched on Tuesday in Abuja with the World Bank Group, the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Federal Ministry of Education called for greater measurement, action on evidence, and coordination of all education actors.

The report said millions of young students in low and middle-income countries face the prospect of lost opportunity and lower wages in later life because their primary and secondary schools are failing to educate them to succeed in life.
It warned of a ‘learning crisis’ in global education, saying, schooling without learning was not just a wasted development opportunity, but also a great injustice to children and young people worldwide.

 “This learning crisis is widening social gaps instead of narrowing them. Young students who are already disadvantaged by poverty, conflict, gender or disability reach young adulthood without even the most basic life skills.” 
It said other evidence showed that in Nigeria, when fourth grade students were asked to complete a simple two-digit subtraction problem, more than three-quarters could not solve it.

In her remark, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, Minister of Finance, stated that, “Education remains critical to global development and human welfare in every society, and especially for Africa and indeed for Nigeria, given the state of our development. Several strategies targeted at the education sector are currently being undertaken by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration.

Mallam Adamu Adamu, Minister of Education said, “We must stop just spending on education; we must begin to start looking at our spending as an investment in education.

 “The Federal Ministry of Education after several consultations with stakeholders in the education sector including the World Bank, developed a road map for the education sector captioned ‘Education for Change:  A Ministerial Strategic Plan.’  The plan is built on ten pillars which address the well-known areas of education.”

Rachid Benmessaoud, World Bank Country Director, Nigeria, explained that the group would continue its support to the Nigerian Government in its education sector reforms to increase access and improve quality and learning outcomes.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment