Share this on WhatsApp

The failure of the Central Bank Nigeria (CBN) to deliver on lower Naira currency notes like N5, N10, N20, N50 and N100 has created significant scarcity for majority of Nigerians who transact business mostly in the affected lower denominations.

The agony of the frustrated, countless customers was not assuaged by the fact that with cashless transactions still at its infancy in the country, most transactions still depend heavily on the use of cash across the counter.

Reacting on the inflationary effects of the scarcity, an economist, Dr. Emma Isong said the scarcity of lower denominations like N5, N10, N20, N100 and N200 in an economy is an indicator of the level of inflation in the economy.
He said when petty traders cannot get these small denominations to transact business, it shows that inflation is catching up with them.
It would be recalled that the Senate, on February 13, expressed worry over the scarcity of lower denominations of the naira notes in the country. The lawmakers noted that the scarcity posed a severe threat to the economy, which is just recovering from recession, as it is worsening inflationary trends.

Senator Magnus Abe from Rivers State said Nigerian traders had taken advantage of the scarcity of lower denomination notes to raise the prices of goods. Abe stated, “When it continues to be part of our legal tender and they are unavailable, it becomes an indirect way of pushing up the prices of commodities. If a trader knows that they are to give you change of N5 or N10, that change will never be available, they will simply plan their prices to the next round figure. That will in the long term drive up prices in the economy.”

Senator Peter Nwaoboshi from Delta State, who raised the motion on currency scarcity, expressed worry that banks in Nigeria no longer dispensed the lower naira denominations with the excuse that they hardly receive them from the CBN.

Meanwhile, the CBN in an apparent bid to address this concern, the CBN has started a campaign targeting the informal sector, especially traders in markets, with the aim of increasing the circulation of the smaller units of the naira to make doing business easier.

Acting Director, Currency Operations Department, CBN, Mrs. Priscilia Eleje said the new strategy would ensure that traders desist from hiking prices of goods just to avoid looking for customers’ balances. She said the new Naira notes will be distributed to traders within Wuse and Garki markets and others through their associations.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment