Share this on WhatsApp

By Boluwatife Ezekiel Olaleye

Top Northern Nigeria’s Islamic group, the Jamaatu Nasril Islam (JNI), has condemned in strong terms the resurgence of violence in Plateau State.

The group called on the state and federal governments to rise and stop further killings and destruction of property in the state.

Several persons, including two soldiers, were killed last week in renewed violence in Miango and Bassa communities in the state.

JNI in a statement Monday signed by its Secretary-General, Kahild Aliyu, said it “received with grave concern, the news of premeditated killings of innocent persons and destruction of properties worth millions in Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State on Wednesday, 14th March 2018, as well as Rukuba Chiefdom in the same Bassa Local Government Area.”

According to the group, the attacks and counter attacks were carried out repeatedly and that they it received reports showing that “over 150 houses have been alighted as animals were not spared, just as numerous persons were annihilated.

“As a result of which many persons are now displaced in their homelands. Therefore, JNI condemns in strong terms the heinous attacks in their totality”.

JNI said the carnage in Plateau must be stopped, as human lives are sacred and must be seen to be treated so.

“The Wednesday 14th March, 2018 attacks and follow-up reprisals may take over towns and villages by miscreants which in itself portends danger to the state, because from all indications it is looking like a pre-planned guerrilla attacks,” the group said.

The group said perpetrators of the attacks must be fished out.

“Likewise, the way media houses do always take sides at the detriment of innocent souls is gruesome and unfair to human life.

“In fact, in this case ,the whole unfortunate attacks were downplayed, thus we call for investigative as well as balanced reportage,” it said.

It also called on the government to provide relief materials to all affected victims as they are now in utmost need for such.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment