Share this on WhatsApp

Negotiate new party with SDP

The craving instinct for a new mega political party in Nigeria towards the 2019 general elections has consumed several political actors who have been preoccupied with new alignments and realignments for new political platforms.
The Opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is on the path of becoming vulnerable to mass exit if prominent members seeking new political order elsewhere.
Professor Jerry Gana, is leading several PDP members to negotiate a new political formation with the Social Democratic Party (SDP), seeking further alliances with the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Peoples Salvation Party (PSP) to form a stronger mega political party in preparation for 2019.
The PDP stalwarts working out new political formation with Jerry Gana include Sen. Joseph Akaagerger, a former Military Administrator of Katsina State; Elder Peter Godsday Orubebe, a former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs,; Chief Mike Oghiadhome, a former Chief of Staff to former President Goodluck Jonathan; former Governor Saminu Turaki of Jigawa State;, Dr. Olu Agunloye, former Minister of Defence; and a former Deputy Speaker of Ondo State House of Assembly, Hon. Dare Emiola.
On the SDP negotiating team led by Chief Olu Falae, are Dr. Junaid Mohammed, a former member of the House of Representatives; Sen. Bassey Ewa Hensaw; a member of the National Assembly; Hon. Olamide Oni; Supo Shonibare (South-West Zonal chairman of SDP), Hon. Dipo Olaitan (a former leader of the Alliance for Democracy in the House of Representatives); a former Speaker, Oyo State House of Assembly, Kehinde Ayoola;  Amb. Yemi Farounbi; leaders of the Middle Belt Forum; Mr. John Dara; leaders  of the National Intervention Forum led by Dr. Tafawa Balewa; Amb Bejide; Shehu Gabam.
After a meeting on Thursday night at the Ladi Kwali Hall of the Sheraton Hotel in Abuja, the PDP negotiating team under the identity of Movement for a New Political Order signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Social Democratic Party (SDP).
The MoU jointly signed by Falae, for SDP and Gana, for Movement for a New Political Order, MoU reads in part:
“Whereas on the 12th Day of February 2018, a joint resolution was adopted at Sheraton Hotel Abuja, for working together to ensure the emergence of a new and credible political order to deepen democracy, good governance and genuine development, with peace, security and social justice. The said meeting also unanimously resolved to build:
a) A restructured, balanced equitable and truly functional Nigerian Federation:
b)  A humane, free, seIf-reliant and democratic society;
c) A dynamic, productive, transformed and sustainable economy;
d) A just, fair, egalitarian and peaceful nation
e) A land of bright and full of opportunities for all Nigerians; and
f) A national culture of raising good leaders through effective mentoring;
“Whereas, it was also agreed that the proposed movement shall be directed,  driven and defined by such core values as:  1. Justice, fairness, equity and progress;  2. Democracy, good leadership, good governance and sustainable development; 3. Transparency, integrity, truth and honour; 4. Accountability and zero tolerance for corruption; 5. Respect for human dignity, human rights and sanctity of human life;; and 6. Peace, security, harmony,  cooperative solidarity, within the rule of law; and 7. International cooperation for a common humanity within a secure and peaceful order.
“Whereas, the movement further resolved to be inspired and motivated by the ideals of social democracy, with great emphasis on:  the triumph of social justice; the  nobility of human dignity; the  harmony of fairness and equality; the power of working together in solidarity; the excellence of good governance, driven by good leadership; the wisdom of reforms and transformation far beyond mere growth; the horror of poverty, demanding eradication; the dignity of prosperity; the imperative of democracy and the security of peace with justice
“Whereas with due reference to these objectives, core values, and ideals, a Strategy Committee was mandated to search for a suitable, popular, meaningful and widespread platform, with a name that already resonates with the people and to make appropriate recommendations; and
“Whereas, the Strategic Committee, comprising representatives from all the six geopolitical zones of the Federation, have met  and submitted their report, unanimously recommending the adoption  of  Social Democratic Party(SDP) vehicle by the movement for a new political order:
“Therefore, we hereby resolutely agree to: (a) Fuse together into one political form; (b) adopt the Social Democratic Party(SDP) as the political vehicle for the fused political formation; (c) Convene a non-elective convention for Saturday, 14th April, 2018; (d) authorize the National Working Committee to serve as the Interim Management Committee until the said convention;  Set up a National Steering Committee of 12 members to guide the Interim Management  Committee during the transition period; Raise a Constitution Review Committee to consider all necessary amendments to the constitution.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment