Share this on WhatsApp
The frequency of elite alignment and realignment across political parties in Nigeria in the preparations for the 2019 general elections has been on the rise.
The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has been facing palpable uncertainty of probable mass defection of notable party leaders after former Vice President Atiku Abubakar had dumped the APC for the Opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The lingering innuendo of the defection intension of the President of the Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, and Speaker of the house of the representatives, Right Honourable Yakubu Dogara, to return to PDP has deepened the threat to the decimation of the APC towards 2019.
Earlier reports that Saraki will be returning to the PDP sparked skeletal protests in Kwara State.
At the recent APC Caucus and National Executive Committee (NEC) meetings in Abuja chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari, Saraki was conspicuously absent at both meetings while Dogra attended the Caucus meeting but absent at the NERC meeting the next day.
The absence of Saraki at both meetings heightened the suspicion of his determination to leave the ruling APC.
However, the Senate President had earlier intention to join Atiku Abubakar in PDP. But pressures from former President Olusegun Obasanjo is beginning to sway Saraki’s decision towards joining the Social Democratic Party (SDP) which Dr. Obasanjo has bene rebuilding to sponsor candidates that would emerge from the Nigeria Coalition Movement (CNM), an emergent Third Force for power contest in the country.
Saraki and Dogara were gathered to have been lured by former President Obasanjo to align with the Third Force and join the SDP in the task of compelling generational leadership transition in Nigeria.
Apparently, Saraki and Dogara have been at crossroads of their defection plans; weighing the options of dumping the APC for PDP and aligning with former Vice President Atiku Abubakar or joining the Third Force and defecting to SDP, then, align with former President Obasanjo.
Meanwhile, political overtures have deepened   across the country. Non-state actors, including the Northern Elders, have joined the league of stakeholders searching for credible presidential candidate in 2019.
A faction of eh PDP led by Professor Jerry Gana, at the weekend, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the SDP led by Chief Olu Falae on a new political union for the formation of a stronger political alliance.
Meanwhile, APC, at the recent Caucus and NEC meeting consolidated its platform, extending the tenure of the National Working Committee (NWC) and the appointment of the National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, to one year effect from June 2018.
The alignments and realignments of the ruling and governing elites continue with precarious political intrigues.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment