Share this on WhatsApp

Demands N10bn compensation

Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi, representing Kaduna North Senatorial District in the National Assembly, has filed a defamation suit against Governor Nasir El-Rufai over the demolition of his house in Kaduna by the state government.
Hunkuyi, who filed the suit through Yusuf Dankofa, a lawyer, is demanding N10 billion for the demolition of his house located at 11B Sambo road in Kaduna.
A faction of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna had established its State Secretariat at the building where a decision to suspend Governor El-Rufai for six months was made.
The Kaduna State Government revoked the tittles of ownership of the land property and re-allocated it to the Kaduna State Urban Planning and Development Agency (KASUPDA) for the construction of amusement park.
The Senator prayed the court to, among other things, declare that the action of the respondents in “arrogating to themselves the power to punitively” sanction him and his company, Muna Investment Limited, was illegal.
He said the action of the respondents constitute a gross violation of his fundamental human rights as guaranteed under section 43 (1) and 46 (1) of the constitution of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) and, therefore, illegal, unconstitutional, null and void.
He also asked for “a declaration that the purported takeover of the said property on the basis of purported non-payment of ground rent/land use charge or for any other reason is wrong, illegal and unconstitutional.
“An order mandating the respondents to pay him the respondents the sum of N10 billion being aggravated, punitive and general damages jointly and severally for the violation of his fundamental human right.”
Hunkuyi had earlier filed another suit at the state High Court to restrain the Kaduna Geographic Information Service (KADGIS) from taking any action on his residence at 18A, Inuwa Wada street, Angwan Rimi GRA.
KADGIS had also issued a 30-day ultimatum to the senator, demanding the payment of N31.4 million said to be “accumulated ground rents for 24 years”.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment