Share this on WhatsApp

Says President has failed Nigerians




Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State has expressed the view that the Dapchi Girls abduction and rescue episode is another clear evidence of failure of President Muhammadu Buhari, saying “the President cannot take credit for his own failure.”
Fayose ridiculed the ruling party, saying, there was no basis for the All Progressives Congress (APC) to applaud the President’s “claim of bringing back home those innocent Dapchi Girls that ought not to have been abducted in the first place if not for the government’s laxity.”
The governor said that party government has lost the capacity to protect live and property of Nigerians.
Fayose declared: “It is obvious that the All Progressives Congress (APC) federal government has failed to protect Nigerians, if its electoral promises is anything to go by and one wonders the basis for the party to applaud President Muhammadu Buhari’s claim of bringing back home those innocent Dapchi Girls that ought not to have been abducted in the first place if not for the government’s laxity.
“Most importantly, that the abduction and return of the girls took place without resistance is a sign that the APC led federal government has lost the war against insurgency, the basis for which it came to power. It is also a clear indication that Nigerians can no longer depend on the clueless government for their safety.
“The way and manner the Dapchi girls were abducted and returned is a clear demonstration that the federal government is fooling itself and not Nigerians as the whole process is shrouded in secrecy, raising more questions than answers.
“The removal of military checkpoints in Dapchi ahead of the abduction, as confirmed by Governor of Yobe State, Ibrahim Geidam, clearly shows the complicity of the federal government and some individuals profiting from the whole saga.
“Despite security alerts by the locals, the military looked the other way, which necessitated the damning report by the Amnesty International.
“To the amazement of Nigerians, 24 hours after, the abductors brought back the girls. I believe the true story of this Dapchi abduction will be told one day.
“I wish to identify with the families of the returned Dapchi girls and sympathize with those of the deceased.
“It is obvious that this present APC operates by propaganda, I urge Nigerians not to lose hope as help is on the way.”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment