Share this on WhatsApp



Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto was joined by Governors Kashim Shettima of Borno, Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano, Muhammed Abubakar of Bauchi and Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna to sign a memorandum of understanding on Wednesday with Bill Gates and Aliko Dangote on improved access to immunization across Northern Nigeria. The event held at the Sokoto Government House. Yobe State Governor was represented.
Health Minister, Professor Isaac Adewole also witnessed the signing of the MoU.
Tambuwal stated that all the states are committed to improving vaccine availability, encouraging stronger community engagement and securing financing.
“In addition, we will ensure strong monitoring and evaluation while at the same time, accountability mechanisms will be put in place,” the governor assured.
Bill Gates affirmed that all partners are committed to ensuring maximum number of children are reached, adding that the MoUs are intended to enable states achieve targeted coverage.
“Routine immunization is crucial to ensuring that every child is protected against vaccine-preventable diseases, helping them achieve their potential and live full, productive lives. We are ready t support the states in reaching the targets set out in the MoUs,” he remarked.
Gates observed that with the election season approaching, all hands must be on deck to ensure the targets are met. He projected that all partners are committed to reaching at least over 80 coverage in the coming year.
 “My request is that all the Governors should review campaigns and ensure that in the next two years, we complete polio eradication. On routine immunization, the opportunity is fantastic; vaccinations are phenomenal on their impacts. We can prevent millions of deaths by doing work on RI,” he declared.
Dangote articulated the need for governments to be up-to-date on the payment of their counterpart funds, and to work hard on improving data especially at the grassroots level.
“We are delighted that the MoU have been extended, reaffirming bauchi, Borno, Kaduna, kano, Sokoto and Yobe states’ commitment to the health of their citizens. Our expectation now is that this commitment will be translated into concrete action,” Dangote said.
He commended both the federal and state governments for working on data improvement and for reaffirming their commitments to tackling preventable diseases.
In their separate remarks, the Governors expressed delight at the signing of the MoUs, and promised to ensure full implementation in their various states.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment