Share this on WhatsApp
A talented trainee doctor killed himself after a social media prank by his university friends went tragically wrong.
Edward Senior, 22, sent a private message to tell close friends about a ‘brief relationship’ with an attractive young fellow student.
His friends from the university medicals rugby team allegedly decided to share the message with hundreds of people online for a joke.
However Edward was reportedly left embarrassed and feared being expelled from medical school – therefore ending his dream of becoming a doctor. He is said to have returned upset to his family home 60 miles away, and was later found hanged in woodland.
Police investigating his death are expected to interview his university friends to get to the truth of the tragedy.
One friend from the Swansea Unviersity Medicals team today said: ‘There’s a lot of false rumours being flying around. It is heartbreaking for us all.’
Tributes were today paid to the ‘blonde-haired charmer’ known as Ted who started at rugby, cricket and football.
His brother Max said: ‘Ted achieved a huge amount in such a small space of time. He was a talented rugby player and had a great passion for all sports. ‘He got into medical school after years of hard work and sacrifice.
‘Ted tragically took his own life. In the 22 years he lived, he had an unbelievable impact on so many people’s lives.He had a rare ability to light up any room with his wide smile, mop of blonde hair and special charm.
‘Ted was a friend to everyone and always did his upmost to help people in need. ‘He embodied all the right values on how to live, and will undoubtedly leave a life-long legacy in everyone’s hearts.’
His sister Rosy said: ‘He’ll forever be my big brother.’ Ted, of Raglan, Monmouthshire, was head boy at Monmouth Comprehensive Shool for Boy – where he was a close friend of Wales rugby star Hallam Amos.
He then went on to study medicine with dream of being a doctor. A tribute from his school: ‘He would have made a wonderful and exceptional doctor with his smile and care.’
Mr Senior’s family have now set up a foundation in his name to help other young people contemplating ending their lives A GoFundMe page said: ‘In honour of Ted, it is the family’s wish to set up a foundation in his name.
This will be an organic process with funds raised being invested in projects and forums aimed at preventing a reccurence of a similar tragedy.’
The Ted Senior Foundation fund has so far raised more than £12,000 – double its original target. Swansea University declined to comment if Ted had been suspended in the days leading up to his tragic death.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment