Share this on WhatsApp
By Chioma Obinagwam

The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has said that it marked the money week with series of educational programs centred on the importance of financial literacy.

Speaking in a statement, NSE said the week-long event, organized in collaboration with Access Bank Plc and AIESEC Nigeria, included interactive sessions with the executive management of NSE, school outreach programmes in Lagos, Ibadan, Kano, Abuja, Onitsha and Port Harcourt, and excursions to the trading floor.

Also known as The Exchange, NSE also joined other stock exchanges around the globe in the “Ring Around the World” initiative, using its Closing Gong ceremony to further draw attention to the importance of financial literacy among youths.

In his welcome remarks, Bola Adeeko, Head, Shared Services Division, NSE, noted that, “As a sustainable Exchange championing Africa’s growth, NSE takes the issue of providing young people with the tools they need to make sound financial decisions very seriously. We are constantly implementing and supporting initiatives that encourage our youths to develop sustainable spending habits and to become financially savvy.”

“Since celebrating the Global Money Week in 2014, The Exchange has been able to reach over 12,507 students from 118 schools. This year alone, NSE impacted 5,337 students from over 25 secondary schools and institutions of higher learning, through various financial literacy programmes during the week”.

“Other financial literacy initiatives we carry out include, school excursions to the Exchange, NSE Adopt-ASchool initiative, school outreach programmes, and financial literacy workshops. Through these initiatives, we have been able to promote financial literacy among young Nigerians, by encouraging them to learn how good financial decisions can better their lives now and in the future, and ultimately grow the economy,” he added.

To end its series of financial literacy activities for the 2018 Global Money Week, the Exchange in collaboration with Bestman Games Limited and Ediye Limited, will hold a Monopoly Open Competition for children between the ages of seven  and 15.


The competition, which is designed to help children learn and show their basic financial planning skills, was held take place on Sunday, March 18, 2018, in Lagos State.

The Global Money Week is an annual global celebration, initiated by Child & Youth Finance International (CYFI), with local and regional events and activities aimed at inspiring children and youths to learn about money, saving, creating livelihoods, gaining employment and becoming entrepreneurs.

It is also aimed at empowering the next generation to be confident, responsible and skilled economic citizens. This year’s theme highlights the need for children and youth, now more than ever, to be economically equipped and empowered to close inequality gaps and build a brighter future.

Money Matters Matter, because children and youth need to receive the knowledge and develop skills necessary to make smart financial decisions, to lead a successful life.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment