Share this on WhatsApp
Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar declared for 2019 in Rivers on Tuesday, saying he chose the south-south state beacuse its Gov. Nyesom Wike is the live wire of the PDP.
Many have always seen Ekiti Gov. Ayo Fayose, the most critical of the APC government, as the hammer man of the party.
Wike, however, disagreed with his guest.
The governor said every genuine member of the PDP is a the live wire of the party.
But he agreed Atiku is the most feared politician by the ruling party.
This is the fourth time in abput 10 years the former vice president will be gunning for Aso Rock.
He has hopped parties four times so far, the last being his cross from the APV to his former Party PDP last December.
Atiku claims he is on a mission to put Nigeria on the path of growth, ro break it off failure of the APC.
He said at the declaration that since APC came to power in 2015, it has destroyed the education, health and infrastructure sectors with poor funding.
“Since 2015, we have not seen a 100 kilometres road constructed by the APC federal government anywhere in the country,’ he said.
“I have never seen Nigeria so divided along religious, ethnic and regional lines, as a result of the mismanagement of the APC.”
Wike  said the PDP is prepared to edge out the APC from to rescue Nigeria from this maladministration.
He urged members to seize the oppirtunity.
“Every presidential aspirant must see himself as a member of the larger PDP family,” he said.
No rubber stamp yet for Atiku among other aspirants.
The governor said only one of them will become a candidate.
“We will do everything to ensure that the party comes out with a candidate that has a track record to upstage the APC.”
Unity–by way of restructuring–and youth are Atiku major campaign issues this time.
Present at the decalaration were his loyalists, including Okwesilieze Nwodo, an ex-party chairman, formr Gov Gbenga Daniel. former AGF Michael Aondoakaa, and others.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment