Share this on WhatsApp



Its 2 years since Nomoreloss (Muyiwa Adeyemi Oshinuga), the loved Nigerian musician , popular known for his song ‘iyawo asiko” passed away. Nomoreloss passes away on the 21st of March 2016 aged 39 years.
He died after a short battle with pneumonia and he left behind his beautiful daughter, Motunrayo Oshinuga. Nigerian musician, WeirdMc took to Instagram to celebrate and remember him.
Here is what she had to say , “Dearest Muyiwa …wow how time flies ..if there’s one thing i miss it’s our talk and that your head always filled with so many ideas. Absence from the body is presence with the Lord. Sleep on my dear brother By His Special Grace till we meet again..#Nomoreloss To die is to gain”.
Olumuyiwa Osinuga’s growing up in the high-brow areas of Lagos, Nigeria played a great part in his appreciation of classical music as well as music of international flavor.
Nomoreloss was also privileged to study the rudiments of music from one of Nigeria’s greatest instrumentalist and jazz saxophonist Kunle Ajayi.
He started out as a rapper while in high school and later on switched to master of ceremony at various events. An accomplished stand-up comedian, mc, musical video director as well as a television host, he has directed musical videos for such artists like Lexy Doo, Jagunlabi, Jah Borne, Cimion, Folake Umosen and was project coordinator and producer for the video CD for the controversial rapper Rugged Man’s Thy Kingdom Come Album.
With role models such as Ebenezer Obey, King Sunny Ade, Fela Anikulapo Kuti, Orlando Owoh, IK Dairo, King Wasiu Ayinde Marshal (KWAM 1), he is also a producer of both music and television programs.
With a fusion of R&B, pop, jazz, reggae and jazz with an underlying tone of west African high life has led him to create a style that is unique in its appeal but most certainly soulful in its delivery which has been labeled, ‘New High-Life’.
In 2012, Nomoreloss wrote the biggest song of singer, Jaywon’s career titled ‘This Year.’ In June 2015 he released the album ‘Grass to Grace’. In 2014 he dropped the album ‘Standing ‘, and ‘Then & Now’. His debut album ‘Let Them Say’ was released in 2006.
Nomoreloss entered public consciousness in 2002 when he featured in Ruggedman’s classic cut ‘Ehen’. Prior to that he was a presenter on the music TV show ‘Groovoidz’. While making a name for himself as a gifted singer, Nomoreloss also shot music videos for many Nigerian singers at the time. Nomoreloss got married to Rhythm 93.7 FM OAP Phoenix (Adeola Osinuga) in 2008 and they welcomed their daughter on Saturday, January 15, 2011. He will forever be remembered as a Veteran singer, an inspirational artiste and a producer.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment