Share this on WhatsApp

In view of the current security challenges in the country, the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, has ordered the withdrawal of police officers attached to very important personalities, political and public office holders in the country.

Idris gave the order on Monday at the monthly meeting with Commissioners of Police in Abuja.

He said the order became expedient in view of the current security challenges in the country, adding that it was aimed at enhancing effective and efficient policing of the country.

Idris said the directive included business entrepreneurs, multinational companies as well as corporate individuals.

The police IG said a memo would be forwarded to President Muhammadu Buhari for approval.

He added that the approval would also serve as a guideline or template for the deployment of officers to VIPs, political and public office holders.

Idris said a task force had been constituted at the force headquarters to ensure compliance to the directive while command commissioners would replicate same at their various commands.

He said organisations and individuals that required services of the police and are found worthy would be considered by the special protection unit (SPU) of the force.

Idris explained that this would be on application for re-validation through the state commissioners of police where they are resident. “I am charging the commissioners of police with the responsibility of supervising such official deployment and thereby holding them accountable,” he said.

On illegal use of siren and spy number plate, Idris directed all holders to return them to the force transport officer (FTO) in Abuja to apply for re-validation.

He said that a task force would be formed at the command levels by state commissioners of police to ensure compliance.

Idris said when formed, the list of members of the task force would be forwarded to the DIG operations on March 31.

He said criminals now take advantage of the situation to perpetrate heinous crimes across the country.

The police IG also warned individuals covering their vehicle number plate and using siren illegally to desist forthwith.

Last month, Mike Okiro, Chairman of the Police Service Commission (PSC), said more than 150,000 policemen were attached to very important personalities (VIPs) and unauthourised persons in the country.
 
He made the disclosure three years after President Muhammadu Buhari directed that police personnel attached to unauthorised persons and VIPs in the country be withdrawn and deployed to confront the security challenges in the nation.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment