Share this on WhatsApp
The President of Dangote group, Aliko Dangote, at the maiden edition of the Lagos-Kano Economic and Investment Summit, at the Jubilee Chalets, Epe, Lagos, on Wednesday, revealed that investment in refinery and fertilizer plants in the Lekki Free Zone, Lagos, have the capacity to generate about N8 trillion revenue to the government.
Dangote stated: “Lagos is more than ready for business. Our refinery, petrochemical, fertilizer and gas projects will generate N8 trillion per annum for Nigeria when fully on stream.”
He disclosed that he was part of the people who believe State Governments should collaborate with one another for economic benefits of their states. He remarked that the partnership between Lagos and Kano would go a long way in driving their economies which would have spiral effect on the nation’s economy.
Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State explained that the decision of the State Government to join the Oodua Investment Group triggered what had evolved over the last two years to become a signpost for effective partnerships between Lagos and other States.
He said with the current economic challenges facing the nation, there was no better time for States to begin to look beyond an oil driven economy and take advantage of their comparative advantages to engender economic growth.
“We urge other States and Regions to begin to leverage on their respective areas of comparative advantage by establishing partnerships towards establishing an inter-state or inter-regional commodity value chain.
“The idea of an intra and inter-regional trade and cooperation is not new to Lagos State. Over the past years, our State has collaborated with Kebbi and other states from within the western region to drive economic growth and development,” Ambode said.
Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State also remarked that his administration entered into the partnership with Lagos with a strong belief that it would create a veritable platform to drive home grown investments in the face of volatile global oil prices.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment