Share this on WhatsApp



Following the absence of Counsel to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) at the High Court II (Criminal Division), Benin-City on Tuesday for Oral address in a case of fraud allegation against five medical doctors in Edo State, Counsel to the Defendants has moved for adjournment to a later date.

They also asked the court to quash criminal charges preferred against them by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), challenging the jurisdiction of the Court to entertain the case.

The five accused person, namely: Dr. Emmanuel Ighodaro (Chairman), Dr. Anthony Owolabi, Dr. Quincy Atoghengbe, Dr. Raymond Ogieva and Dr. Oseremen Gabriel Ogbebor were former executive members of Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), the Edo State branch, between 2013 and 2014 are on trial over an alleged N21.7 fraud while in office.

A 21-count charge was first brought against them on January 31, 2018 when they were arraigned by the anti-graft agency, for alleged conspiracy to commit felony, fraudulent false accounting and stealing of about N21.7 million belonging to the Association.

At the resumed hearing on Tuesday, Counsel to the EFCC, Ben Ubi who was aware of the day proceeding failed to appear in the court while Counsels to the Defendants, who were present with expectation of hearing based on separately filed applications, seeking its leave to quash the case as well as challenging its jurisdiction to adjudicate on the matter felt disappointed.

Counsels to the Defendants sought for adjournment of the case at a later date due to non-availability of the EFCC counsel in the court, the trial judge, Justice Ikponwmonba obliged and adjourned hearing to May 15th, 2018 with instruction that a hearing notice should be served on EFCC before that date by the court.

Recall that at the resumed trial in February, Counsel to the EFCC, Ben Ubi had told the court that Counsel to the Defendants have filed separate applications, seeking its leave to quash the case as well as challenging its jurisdiction to adjudicate on the matter, while the Presiding Judge, Justice Efe Ikponwmonba of the High Court II (Criminal Division), Benin-City thereafter adjourned the case to March 20, 2018, for definite hearing.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment