Share this on WhatsApp




sign up for his reelection




Clergymen in Lagos state have declared that the lingering menace of the militia groups bedevilling the nation would not have arise if the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) was functional.

This was the take of the Dr. Tajudeen Yusuf, a Senior lecturer at the University of Lagos,Chief Imam University of Lagos Mosque and the Co-Chairman (NIREC-Muslim), while speaking at the maiden edition of the quarterly meeting of religious leaders from the 20Local Government Areas and 37 Local Council Development Areas, held at Adeyemi Vero auditorium at Alausa, Ikeja Lagos.

He cited the inert mode of the group at the National level as the root cause of restlessness and ruthless intolerance experienced in some parts of the country.


“For the past five years the national  NIREC had not been able to meet,if the NIREC at the national had been functional there wouldn’t have been Boko Haram as issues would have been handled amicably.

“Lagosians must thank the Almighty Allah for having Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode as Governor, he as always worked hard and tirelessly for the good of Lagosians.
“The 2018 Revised Land Use Charge Law was a fair one, arrived at through the wishes of the people, God has been using His Excellency  to accomplish unprecedented feats than ever before in Nigeria.
 “No religious crisis has ever been recorded in Lagos and this is a testimony that, the State is under a man with a fear of God and love for his people”.
“Lagosians must continue to pray and work for peace while Muslims and Christians must consolidate their level of cooperation and collaboration in State to enhance peace and continue to step in and stop anything which could threaten the harmony of their communities”.


Also speaking at the well attended parley, Apostle Alexander Bamgbola, the Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Co-Chairman Nigerian Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) Lagos Chapter, described  Governor Ambode as God-fearing man and bridge builder for religious tolerance amongst the Christians and Muslims in the state.
“Governor Akinwunmi Ambode wholeheartedly supports measures that promote peace, he inaugurated the NIREC in the 57 councils in the state.
” Lagos has never had it this good, and it had been prospering mostly because of this high level of peace and religious harmony in the State. Ambode, deserves our support, we endorse him for Second Term as critical stakeholders we must make the necessary sacrifice to persevere in promoting peace and have the power to nib divisive tendencies at the bud”.
“If Nigeria as a country had emulated Governor Ambode’s policies of peace, collaboration among religious bodies and inclusive governance, there would have been fewer crises and strife and sustained progress would have been achieved.
“Muslims and Christians seated at this meeting have been working assiduously for peace and for God,we must not allow the promotion of divisive issues in Lagos, given the obvious fact that Ambode is a listening governor,imagine he instantaneously reviewed the implementation of 2018 Land Use Charge Law to be more peoples friendly.

The Secretary of CAN in Lagos, Baba Aladura  Israel Akin Adewo,  expressed appreciation for the noble roles which the Honourable Commissioner, Hon. Dr. AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef,has been playing in support of Governor Ambode’s Administration and specifically commended his crisis management efforts in the state.
A prominent Muslim leader, Dr. Ashiru in her remarks said that Lagos is the only State whose Chapter of NIREC is functional at the State and Local Government levels and this shows the commitment of the Governor to sustainable peace.
She therefore called on women to do more in their capacity and move the State forward even from their home fronts. She recalled that from the way which Governor Ambode reacted positively to the issue of Land Use Charge, one could say in clear terms that “we have a listening governor in Lagos,who will always respect the wishes of the people, and will pursue any measures to sustain the State of peaceful co-existence and harmonious relations of among the diverse groups and faiths in the State.




The Commissioner for home affairs Hon. Dr. AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef while speaking with newsmen after the event about the essence of the meeting, cited importance of synergy amidst leaders of thought to inform peace all around the state.”So that they could extend the pulpit and the members to explain what is happening in government to members of religious groups,because we have realized that enlightenment is key in all we are talking about.”They have also appealed to Lagosians to cooperate with the government especially with respect to the area of paying of taxes, looking at the chronic mismatch between the revenue and expenditure,there is no way governance can succeed without the active cooperation of the people and the Governor on his part has appreciated the people,Governor Akinwunmi Ambode means well for lagosians.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment