Share this on WhatsApp



The Federal Government has restated its commitment to the welfare and safety of its civil servants, as part of measures to enhance productivity.
Mrs Didi Walson-Jack, Permanent Secretary, Service Welfare Office, Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation, gave the assurance in Keffi, Nasarawa State.
The Permanent Secretary spoke at the end of a three-day retreat for members of the Technical Committee on the Development of the Public Service Emergency Policy.
The retreat was organised by the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation.
Mrs Winifred Oyo-Ita is the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation.
Walson-Jack noted that the committee was set up to develop a policy framework on emergency management in public buildings, saying that security of lives and property of civil servants was important.
She said that the development of the policy framework was part of the strategic implementation plan of the Federal Civil Service recently approved by the Federal Executive Council.
“In that plan, we have a goal, which is goal four, that talks about the wellbeing and welfare of civil servants as well as provision of an enabling environment for civil servants.
“The Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation realised that emergencies ordinarily occur even though we don’t pray for them.
“So, it is important to ensure that lives and property of civil servants and other valuables of the Federal Government are well secure.
“That is one of the reasons the head of service thought of a technical committee that will develop a policy on emergency management in public service,’’ Walson-Jack said.
She expressed the hope that the committee would provide policy guidelines on dealing with prevention of possible emergencies that could occur in public service and public buildings.
She said that the committee made up of professionals and experts in various fields across agencies and professional bodies would come up with a workable safety policy for workers.
“I am sure at the end of the day, the head of service will be pleased with your report.
“I know that it will be the beginning of so many things that will ensure that our workplaces are secure and healthy.
“I believe the head of service will achieve her goal of wellbeing for civil servants and Nigeria will achieve national development because we cannot separate welfare from productivity.
“This is all about increasing our productivity as a nation,’’ she said.
In his remark, Mr Quintus Azogu, Assistant Controller-General, Policy Regulatory and Inspectorate Department, Federal Fire Service, said that all stakeholders must ensure safety of public property.
He, however, noted that the number of fire service stations across the country could not cover up to 50 per cent of the country’s population.
“We have just 332 fire service stations in Nigeria as against 774 LGAs in the country.
He applauded President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of Interior, Lt.-Gen. Abdulrahman Bello Dambazau (rtd.), for supporting the Federal Fire Service.
“President Buhari and the minister have procured many equipment for the service.
“For the first time, with the support of the Federal Government, we procured 40 brand new fire fighter trucks, and we are going to do more,’’ he said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment