Share this on WhatsApp
The suicide note left behind by a bank worker that killed herself by drinking Sniper and Fanta at Iwhrekpokpor, Ughelli, Delta, has been published by her husband suspected to have masterminded his wife’s death.
Although neighbours said Peace was unhappy because of her husband Umokoro’s infidelity, especially for bringing in his mistress to his home, the wife’s family members say their daughter  could not have killed herself.
Peace’s elder brother Maxwell Johnmark alleged that Umukoro had once threatened to kill her—in the presence of her two kids.
Apart from a longstanding crisis tottering on divorce in the 10-year-old marriage, insecurity appeared another issue.
“Umukoro felt intimidated by peace who was a first class graduate,” Johnmark told the Punch.
According to him, on the day the 32-year-old allegedly took Sniper, Umukoro had asked her to come home from work because he wanted to see her; and five days after her death, the husband did not visit the family to formally report the incident.
“The first thing he did after they confirmed to him that his wife was dead was to go on social media to post their marriage pictures and say that his wife was dead. He said his wife died because of N100,000 that she borrowed from the bank. Can somebody kill herself because of N100,000?
Umukoro, however, dismissed all these.
He said Peace had complained of some debts she incurred after “overposting” funds to some customers in two occasions, one adding up to N100,000.
According to screengrabs of their conversation on whatsapp sent to the newspaper, Peace was asking him to take care of their children, a few hours to her death.
Peace (11: 27am):  Migwo, can I get a loan from you or anywhere? To pay N20,000 back monthly; I need N100,000.
Umukoro (12:08am- 12:21pm): Verendo, what happened?
Peace (12:43pm-2:21pm): Nothing. I need the money to clear my debts. I’ll pay back please, every 24th. I don’t have anyone to ask. Please assist me. I don’t have peace. I’m just managing to keep myself together. You didn’t answer me? The problems I’m facing are too much. Please take note. I didn’t commit adultery. Ancestors didn’t kill me. I’m tired of life. Challenges of life won me. Hence I’m killing myself. Please give me a befitting burial. The gate and door are open. I died as your wife. Bury me well and take care of my kids. Bye.
Umukoro (3:24pm): What is your problem?
After the chat, he called her, but she didn’t take the call.
On raising the alarm, he called his neighbours who discovered that she had taken Sniper. She died on the way to hospital.
The state Police Public Relations Officer, Andrew Aniamaka, said the matter is being investigated to unravel whether it was a case of homicide or suicide.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment