Share this on WhatsApp
The All Progressives Congress (APC) has made overtures to Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Aere Gani Adams, lobbying him for solidarity and support for the ruling party.
APC Deputy National Chairman (South), Engineer Segun Oni, delegated a committee led by Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State to the Lagos residence of Aare Adams where the held discussion on the restructure document of the APC. The delegation presented the blueprint recommendations of the Restructuring Committee also led by Governor el-Rufai which was earlier presented to APC National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun.
The delegation was revealed to include Senator Olu Adetunmbi, Secretary of the el-Rufai-led Restructuring Committee, and Otunba Ben Oguntuase.
The visiting committee acknowledged that Adams, being among the leading advocates of the restructuring of Nigeria, made critical inputs to the resolutions that led to the recommendations of APC on restructuring.
Adetunmbi had stated: “We are here to let you know that your views are important. We cannot embark on such a project without consulting proponents of restructuring like you.
“We have followed your position and know it is germane when it comes to State Police, system of governance and restructuring of the polity general.”
Adams was one of the participants at the 2014 Constitutional Conference, where he and others supported the resolution on restructuring of the country. .
Adams, however, inquired from the delegation the authenticity of APC’s resolution on restructuring. He sought clarification if the APC position on restructuring was not just to get re-elected in 2019 only to abandon the cause thereafter.
He said his belief in the restructuring of the country remains unshaken and unwavering, adding without it, “we cannot become a Nation speaking with one voice and with a single focus.”
The Aare Ona Kakanfo maintained that the restructuring of Nigeria cannot be complete without resolving the issue of State Police and the reversal to the six geopolitical structure of governance.
He stated the present structure of governance was not only lopsided and a waste of resources, it can also not guarantee the flow of democratic dividends to the people at the grassroots, who should be the priority of the government.
 “There is no way the man at the grassroots will feel the impact of governance if the majority of the decisions affecting his day to day living are taken in Abuja.
“Before this will permeate to the grassroots, the impact would have been lost,” he declared.
The paramount ruler assured that he stands with anyone or group that believes in the restructuring of Nigeria. “Before we begin the talk of election in 2019, this issue must be tackled headlong. Otherwise, we still remain a country sitting on a keg of gunpowder,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment