Share this on WhatsApp

The Presiding Judge at a Federal High Court, Abuja, Gabriel Kolawole, has accused the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) of frustrating the trial of former National Security Adviser, Sambo Dasuki.

While announcing his withdrawal from the case on Thursday during the cross examination of Hassan Sheidu, an Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) operative, serving as a witness in the trial of Nicholas Ashinze, a colonel in the Nigerian army, Kolawole said he has returned case file to Abdul Kafaratithe, chief judge of the court, for re-assignment to another court.

This is the second time a judge will withdraw from the Dasuki trial which began in 2015.

In October 2016, Adeniyi Ademola, then a justice of the federal high court, also withdrew from the trial after the Department of State Services (DSS) accused him of corruption.

Ernest Nwoye, counsel to Ashinze, asked Sheidu, who conducted investigation into the case to confirm to the court, if the name “Nicholas Ashinze” appeared in any of the transactions relating to the N3.1 billion water project contract.

Nwoye also asked Sheidu whether the office of the NSA was responsible for payment of the contract and whether the office of secretary to the government of the federation (SGF) and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), which effected payment, at any point declared the water contract illegal. Sheidu responded in the negative to both questions.

Nwoye further asked Sheidu to confirm to the court whether the contract was initiated by the office of the NSA where Ashinze served or the federal ministry of water resources, to which the EFCC witness said the contract was initiated by the latter.
 
Nwoye then asked Sheidu why Ashinze was being accused since all evidence do not indict him.
Ofem Uket, counsel to EFCC, this point objected to all the questions asked Sheidu.

After efforts by Kolawole to call Uket to order failed, the judge said he could no longer tolerate the conduct of EFCC in the trial and announced his withdrawal from the case.

The former NSA is facing 19-count charge before Justice Baba-Yusuf.

The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, alleged that Dasuki diverted over N32billion from accounts the office of the NSA operated with both the Central Bank of Nigeria and other financial institutions.

The funds were allegedly distributed to delegates that attended the Presidential Primary Election the Peoples’ Democratic Party, PDP, held in Abuja, a process that saw the emergence of former President Goodluck Jonathan as the sole candidate of the party.

Those also on trial over the alleged fraud are the erstwhile Director of Finance in the Office of the NSA, Mr. Shuaibu Salisu and a former Executive Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, Aminu Baba-Kusa.
Two firms through which the fund was diverted- Acacia Holding Limited and Reliance Referal Hospital Limited, were also joined as defendants in the matter.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment