Share this on WhatsApp
 
The Edo State chapter of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has raised alarm over the planned sale of assets belonging to the state by the Godwin Obaseki led administration in the state.

Through its spokesman in the state, Chris Osa Nehikhare, PDP alleged that APC led administration in the state has already selected a preferred ‘investor’ in the person of Dr. Henry Nzekwu for the acquisition of Bendel Newspaper and Edo Broadcasting Service.

In a statement issued by the party and signed by Nehikhare, the Obaseki led administration procured the services of four media executives sometimes ago to produce a report to justify the sale, or concession of two public enterprises (Bendel Newspapers Ltd, and Edo Broadcasting Service).

“Presently, the governor has allegedly selected a preferred “investor” who happened to be the consultant to his campaign organisation. The said investor is Dr. Henry Nzekwu. He manages a small radio station in Delta state and has great difficulty breaking even.”

Nehikhare alleged that the plan is to quietly divest Edo state interest from both companies, hand them over to Dr Nzekwu, who is acting as a front, as a tradeoff for the role Dr Nzekwu played during his campaign.

“This format is similar to the one Ex-Governor Oshiomhole used in selecting Afri-Invest as the preferred Partner for Edo University Iyamoh. In Iyamoh, Afri-Invest was used as a “holding” company before Adams Oshiomhole can assume control. Dr. Nzekwu in this case is playing a similar role for Governor Obaseki.”

He said similar fate befell the Edoline as her assets has been stripped and converted to personal properties.

“We call on the state government to stop the illegal sale and acquisitions of government assets and properties.  We implore them to put in place a well-motivated management team, invest just 50% of 3 months of the illegally collected security votes (N600m) and EDSG will achieve a world class media company,” Nehikhare charged.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment