Share this on WhatsApp


600 more jobs commitment from employers 

By Chioma Obinagwam

About  150  trainee  graduates  of  the  Lagos  State Employment Trust Fund  (LSETF)  skills  acquisition  scheme  under  the  Lagos  State Employability  Support  Project  (LSESP)  organized  in  conjunction  with  the  United Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP),  have  secured  immediate employment  following  their  successful  graduation  in  the  first  batch  of  the  LSESP skills  acquisition programme.

The  employment  of  the  150  trainee  graduates  who  had  all  undergone six to eight  weeks of  intensive  trainings  carried  out  by  experienced  facilitators  across  –  Garment Making,  Hospitality,  Construction,  Healthcare,  Entertainment  and  Manufacturing sectors  –  was  announced  at  the  graduation  ceremony/job  fair  of  the  LSESP  which held in Lagos recently.

In  addition  to  the  already  employed  trainees,  commitments  for  600  more  jobs were  made  by  executives  of  various  private  organizations  in attendance  at  the  event.

The  additional  600  jobs  commitment  is  a  testament  to the  quality  of  capacity  building  project.

Organizations  such  as  Dangote  Group,  Samsung,  Crown  Nature  Plc,  Whispering Palms,  Farenheit  Hospitality,  X3M  group  among  several  others  led  the  way  in  the employment  of  the  trained  young workmen and  women.

 More  so,  all  the  540  trainee  graduates  in  the  first  batch  of  the  initiative  were awarded  a  certificate  endorsed  by  both  the  Lagos  State  Technical  and Vocational  Education  Board  (LASTVEB)  and  the  Australian  Vocational  training and  Employment  Group  (AVTEG).

Speaking  at  the  event,  the  Lagos  State  Governor,  Mr.  Akinwunmi  Ambode represented  by  the  Deputy  Governor,  Dr.  Mrs.  Oluranti  Adebule,  said  through the successful  graduation  of  the  540  trainees,  his  administration  was  laying  the necessary  foundations  for  steady  and  sustainable  economic  growth  in  Lagos State.

Ambode  added  that  his  administration  has  identified  skills  acquisition  as  a  sure pathway  to  economic  prosperity  and  personal  development  of  the  burgeoning youths  in  the  State,  adding  that  the  LSESP  was  providing  a  viable  platform  to bridge  the  gap  of  shortage  of  skilled  and  employable  labour  required  to  fill  the needs  of  the  job market.

“While  the  business  ecosystem  in  the  State  has  improved  over  the  years, manpower  skills  gap  remains  a  significant  issue  for  businesses  operating  in  Lagos. Several  firms  and  industries  across  the  country  are  unable  to  find  graduates  and non  graduates  with  requisite  skills  to  fill  key  positions.  Paradoxically,  there  are thousands  of  unemployed  youths  out  there  desperate  to  find  a  job,  any  job.

 “The  Employability  Support  Project  will  continue  to  support  these  young  men  and women  through  job  placement  initiatives.  With  twin  aims  of  capacity  building  for Lagos  State  youths  and  the  provision  of  employment  opportunities  for  them,  the project  aims  to  provide  10,000  new  jobs  by  2019,”  he  said. In  her  address,  Chairman  of  the  LSETF,  Mrs.  Ifueko  Omoigui-Okauru  said  the objective  of  the  Employability  Project  is  to  improve  the  technical  and  vocational training  outcomes  in  the  State  with  an  aim  to  increase  employment  opportunities for young people  in  Lagos.

 “This  event  is  a  culmination  of  a  journey  that  started  in  November  2016  resulting  in the  signing  of  an  MOU  with  the  UNDP  in  May  2017.  UNDP  provided  LSETF  a  grant of  $1million  to  complement  the  Fund’s  contribution  of  $3million  towards  an employability  project  in Lagos  State,”  she  said. She  further  commended  private  companies  who  participated  in  the  fair  adding that  since  the  application  process  opened  in  December  2017,  over  13,000 applications  were received  from  intending  participants  in  the  scheme.

 “Since  we  opened  the  application  process  in  December  2017,  we  have  received over  13,000  applications  with  Garment  Making  (26%),  Hospitality  (20%)  and Construction  (18%),  being  the  most  popular  sectors.  We  have  also  seen  more interest  from  women,  who  make up 53%  of  all  applicants. “Out  of  the  13,000  applicants,  we  have  screened  3,985,  approved  3,305 successful  applicants  and  admitted  1,181  students  across  the  6  sectors  in  12 Vocational  Training  Centers,”  she  said.

Okauru used the occasion to call  on Nigerians, the  organized private sector,  multilateral  organisations,  non-governmental  organisations  to  join  the  quest  by  the State  Government  to  expand  employment  opportunities  in  the  State  across  all sectors  of  the  economy. The  Lagos  State  Employability  Support  Project  (LSESP)  is  managed  by  Arc  Skills Nigeria,  a  globally  acclaimed  capacity  building  and  world  class  training  provider.
Share this on WhatsApp