Share this on WhatsApp

With the recent revelation by the National Bureau of Statistics that year-on-year growth projection for air travel in Nigeria has increased at about 12.08 per cent, fifteen new private and commercial airlines are said to have applied for operating permits.
Speaking recently on the developments, spokesman of the apex regulatory body, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Sam Adurogboye, said the development is an indication of growth and progress in the sector, adding that their applications were being considered and as many airlines that met the laid down conditions would be granted permits to operate in Nigeria.
And if the growth rate is anything to go by, the implication is that there would be more earnings for the airlines and other aviation-rated services, with attendant revenue for various regulatory agencies and government coffers.
Also, wider frequencies and alternatives will lead to competition and the likelihood of cheaper fares for the travelling public. The air travel business can then contribute more to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) than the paltry 0.4 per cent recorded in 2016 and 2017 estimates.
To cope with the boom, AirFrance is raising capacity on the Nigerian routes with Boeing 777 and Airbus 340 aircraft types. The wide-body state-of-the-art airplanes, besides the comfort, comes with a 10 per cent additional seat capacity en route Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt to Paris, France and Amsterdam in Holland, where the airline and its partner, KLM, operate.
Similarly, the Rwandan national carrier, RwandAir, is set to open Abuja operations, to add to its Lagos services. The new route is part of its strategic network plan to connect its hub in Kigali to Abuja, Bamako in Mali, Conakry in Guinea and Cape Town in South Africa.
Max Air, previously known for non-scheduled operations, will in the next few days commence passengers’ scheduled services. The travel agencies, who are in the downstream sector of the industry and the middle men between airlines and passengers, have also confirmed a steady improvement in passenger demand, especially on the foreign travels.
The agents and their agencies last year amassed not less than N503.3 billion ($1.4 billion) in travel ticket sales alone, a significant increase from 2016 figures. The agencies attributed the turnover to improved capacity of some airlines and upward review of official exchange rate for aviation from N306 to N359.5 per dollar.
The President of the National Association of Nigerian Travel Agencies (NANTA), Bernard Bankole, said notwithstanding the challenges with foreign exchange, stuck funds and six-week closure of the Abuja airport in 2017, operations of the airlines relatively picked, with the firms either restoring suspended operations or increasing capacity on established routes.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment