Share this on WhatsApp
Nigeria’s incorruptible general has got a chink in his armour, and his anti-corruption war now draws jeers. But the problem is not what he thinks.
By Elijah Olusegun
President Muhammadu Buhari has suddenly realised whom he is: Muhammadu Buhari, president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
No trappings.
“Except in purely armed forces programmes, where “Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces of Federal Republic of Nigeria” will be added,” said SGF Boss Mustapha in a circular issued few days ago.
The light dawned after Buhari awakened to the fact that he was not exactly to the world what he’d always thought he was: the lily of the valley in corrupt Africa. And, by some deja-vu, Aso Rock recently stumbled on the reason why: the ghost of Buhari’s former life as a hard-assed military president still shadows him.
Now that he claims he is a democrat, his past, to his critics, remains damaging. To the do-gooders that want to save the world from corruption and other maladies, it’s just as wide as it’s broad if you are perceived to be heavy-handed but lily-white.
The Transparency International 2017 Corruption Perception Index took Nigeria, under Buhari, a point down—27, compared to the 28 points Africa’s most populous nation had in the 2016 CPI rating. The muckraker particularly gave Buhari a low blow in the rights department, which is one of the four indices it uses to ascertain incorruptibility.
In the World Justice Project and Rule of Law, for instance, Buhari scored a miserable 1. That seems the elephant in the room.
He might just have realised this, belatedly. Because the SGF circular directed government officials to stop hinting of Buhari’s military past when they address him.
Or maybe the president hasn’t even grasped the weight of what he’s got on his hand.
But the report sure rubbed him up the wrong way, considering his puritanical distance to anything corruption. His handlers also couldn’t stomach it, though they believe the administration welcomes constructive criticism.
“We wonder where they got their facts from,” presidential aide Garba Shehu said in the wake of the report.
All this grump was not unexpected.
Buhari is the first and reigning champion of anti-corruption fight in Africa. The AU, through its Advisory Board on Corruption (AUABC), invested him in January, following its perception of the sweat the Nigerian president is breaking to nuke down corruption before, as he always says, it kills Nigeria.
That recognition could have meant a whole lot to him.
“It means that Africa is beginning to give Nigeria its right leadership status and respecting Nigeria for the effort of our new leadership in anti-graft crusade,” Isa Ozi Salami, a member of the AUABC, said in the run-up to the 30th Ordinary Session of the AU in January. There in Addis Ababa then, Buhari was the poster boy for integrity at the investiture themed: Winning the Fight against Corruption: A Sustainable Path to Africa’s Transformation.
Aside from the fanfare of the championship, Buhari has a couple of things to flaunt as victories in the war on corruption. According to the presidency, the implementation of the Treasury Single Account now saves Nigeria N24.5 billion monthly. The EFCC, as of 2017, also recovered N738.9 billion. Its chairman Ibrahim Magu told the 7th session of the Conference of State Parties to the United Nations Convention Against Corruption in Vienna, Austria, that the figure added up to $2.9 billion.
This recognition of Buhari—by other African leaders whose countries even rank better than Nigeria—as Africa’s anti-corruption tsar, however, is conflicting with the TI verdict.
Some conspiracy theories will apparently explain this contradiction.
“This whole episode may turn out to be just a political distraction, given the strong views some of TI’s patrons have expressed against the Buhari administration,” Shehu said.
The known patrons of the TI in Nigeria are former President Olusegun Obasanjo and his minister Oby Ezekwesili, now the heckler-in-chief of the Bring Back Our Girls. The pressure group has been forcing Buhari’s hand to negotiate with Boko Haram for the release of hundreds of schoolgirls the terrorists kidnapped at Chibok, Borno, in 2014.
While Obasanjo is on the TI advisory panel, Ezekwesili is among its pioneer directors. Both have kept a beady eye on the Buhari government, nitpicking its policies every now and then.
The former minister particularly sees nothing to cheer in what she calls the archaic economic policies the president is banking on to tide the nation over its current economic storm.
“Each time I have listened to the president reminisce on his economic policy stance of 1984-1985; I worry that Nigerians will struggle with his economic ideology she said in one of her many takes on the administration.
And shortly before the TI report, Obasanjo wrote a 13-page open letter rubbishing Buhari’s efforts, including the anti-corruption fight. “What does one make of a case like that of Maina: collusion, condonation, ineptitude, incompetence, dereliction of responsibility or kinship and friendship on the part of those who should have taken visible and deterrent disciplinary action?” He asked in the letter.
That these two could have poisoned the well needs no stretch of imagination to beloeve, as far as international hardball goes.
Following the figures by the TI, however, the problem becomes less political. The four indices the body uses for the rating reveal where Buhari’s administration did well: the Berdeismain Foundation Transformation Index (5 points), and the AfDB Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (2 points).
The indices also highlight where the APC government nearly bottomed out: the World Justice Project and Rule of Law (1 point), and the Wold Economic Forum Executive Opinion (1 point).
The scores could be a bitter pill for Buhari to swallow, but the point is: the TI doesn’t gush about a nickel-nursing president who violates rule of law.
The Amnesty International in its 2017 report chronicled series of abuses by the military whose C-in-C is Buhari. It stated that as at last April, the military held more than 4,900 in extremely overcrowded facility in Giwa Barrack, where disease, dehydration and starvation killed at least 340 detainees. Other instances include the Shiite crisis, extra-judicial killings by the military, the IPOB massacre, and the excesses of the police Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) and the Department of State Security (DSS).
Worse than all these is the military clampdown on free press in Nigeria. “On 19 September, the Katsina state police arrested three bloggers, Jamil Mabai, Bashir Dauda and Umar Faruq, for criticizing the governor,” the AI report stated.
“On 19 January, police raided the offices of Premium Times and arrested publisher Dapo Olorunyomi and correspondent Evelyn Okakwu for several hours, after the Chief of Army Staff accused the newspaper of offensive publications.”
The TI believes there is a link between all these abuses and corruption. “It found that almost all journalists killed since 2012 were killed in corrupt countries,’ said TI in its summary of the 2017 report.
And that’s bad enough to affect a country’s rating, no matter its effort to annihilate corruption.
“No activist or reporter should have to fear for their lives when speaking out against corruption,” said Patricia Moreira, the managing director of the TI.
But journalists now look over their shoulders in Nigeria.
Analysing data from the Committee to Protect Journalists, the TI discovered that in the last six years, more than nine out of 10 journalists were killed in countries that score 45 or less on the Corruption Perceptions Index.
On average, every week, at least one journalist is killed in a country that is highly corrupt.
“In addition, one in five journalists that died were covering a story about corruption. Sadly, justice was never served in the majority of these cases,” the group stated.
Hard-hitting as the reports of abuses are, they mean nothing to the Nigerian military. It says it has seen a trend in AI’s reports since 2011, and it’s not surprised by the 2017 edition.
“This position of AI clearly shows lack of respect for the constitution of Nigeria,” the Defence Headquarters said few days ago in a rebuttal. “Let it be known that the Nigerian Government and its people are not ready and would never be, even in future, to please AI or anyone with the introduction of ‘such things.”
The clash of the rights group and the Nigeria military is a plus for the opposition PDP. And certainly, too, the sleazebags there being roiled up for the pillage in the last administration will readily amplify the din about rights abuse.
Their goal, the APC believes, is to put the president on a razor-edge—to fight corruption without riding rough-shod on many.
Truly, neither of the two is a lesser evil.
So Buhari either turns up his nose, mows down the swinish politicians, and damns TI’s lack-lustre rating—or mollycoddles the corrupt, and becomes a general turned a straight-A democrat.
The former seems his best bet—since it’s his word against TI’s.
Moreover, Buhari loves his word being his bond.
“I will set a personal example, and run a government that truly serves the people rather than serves itself and a privileged few,” he promised Nigerians while campaigning.
So the TI had better keep its good grades.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment