Share this on WhatsApp



The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday ridiculed the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) that its national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, at the Colloquium to mark his 66 birth anniversary exposed the failure of President Muhammadu Buhari in about the past three years of APC governance of Nigeria.
Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP National Publicity Secretary, in a statement on Thursday was of the view that Tinubu’s speech, at his colloquium, rather than being a damage of the PDP, ended up amplifying an admittance of the failure of President Buhari and the APC administration.
The statement read in part: “The PDP watched with amusement as Asiwaju Tinubu struggled with words to appease President Buhari and give him assurances that he can win a second term election in the face of mass failure both in governance and in their discredited, rejected and troubled platform.
“It was a direct admittance of failure and indictment on President Buhari’s administration, when Asiwaju pointedly told the President that the ship of the nation, under his (Buhari’s) watch, still needs to be rescued, almost three years down the line.
“It is tragic that Asiwaju had to tutor his visitor, who had no policy direction since his election in 2015, by engaging in a revision of the programmes and policies of the PDP, such as the leasing system, the mortgage and pension schemes which boosted the economy and directly impacted on the lives of Nigerians.
“More pathetic is the fact that the APC leader presented the PDP programmes as if he was introducing novel ideas in the economy. This clearly stood with our position that the APC government is incompetent and lacking in ideas of how to move the nation forward.”
The PDP also cautioned Tinubu, to stop playing god, saying that Nigerians have the faculty and freedom to determine the leadership that best suit their desires without anybody’s control.
The Opposition Party further admonished Tinubu not to allow himself to be used a second time as he still bears a gross part of the blame for the enthronement of “this incompetent, divisive, nepotic and inherently corrupt administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, which has brought the nation to its knees in three years”.
 “While we congratulate the Lagos Governor Emeritus on his birthday, the PDP considers it needful, to forewarn him to study the current ambience of Nigerian politics as it relates to the failures of the Buhari Presidency and the fact that the citizens have since rejected this Presidency and the APC, so that Asiwaju will not find himself swimming against the tide,” PDP declared.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment