Share this on WhatsApp
By Alex Olise
The General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division Nigerian Army Major General Enobong Udoh have urged soldiers to rededicate themselves and work more harder to surmount future security challenges facing the country.
The Army Chief said this during the 2018 West African Social Activities (WASA) held at the 9 Brigade garrison parade ground at the Ikeja Cantonment Lagos. He also reminded soldiers to always be conscious of their behaviour within and outside the barracks, having in mind that whatever action they exhibit outside affects the entire image of the Nigerian Army.
The GOC who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Brigadier General Hamisu Hassan explained that the Nigerian Army personnel are subject to civil authority and as soldiers everyone must exhibit complete loyalty to the Nigerian Nation.
In an earlier interview with journalists the GOC said “West African Social Activities (WASA) is an age long tradition inherited from the founding fathers of the Nigerian Army. The initiative was born out of the need to relax with friends and loved one when the heat of battle is down”.

He explained further that WASA creates an avenue to socialize and celebrate the success recorded within a particular period. He added that WASA and the other social events organized in the army are directed at reducing such tension and stress to enable officers and soldiers revive and face the future with more zeal and commitment.

Also in his remark, the commander 9 Brigade Nigerian Army, Brigadier General, Elias Attu said the theme of this year WASA “Cultivating Avenue to Enhance Oneness and Togetherness Amongst Troops” was carefully articulated having known that the Nigerian Army is a total reflection of the entity Nigeria.
 
He urged officers and soldiers of the Nigerian Army to encourage and sustain this oneness through events like the West African Social Activities which will further cement and strengthen unity in diversity.
During the event different ethnic groups across the country displayed their cultural heritage to entertain guests. They include the Hausa/Fulani, Igbo, Yoruba, Calabar, Idoma and Tiv. There was also performance from youths in the barrack and kids who entertained the gathering as well as performance from John the Magician who also displayed before guests and Tug of war where soldiers of the 9 Brigade and Logistics unit showed their strength in drawing of rope exercise which added colour to the big event attended by friends and families of the Nigerian Army.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment