Share this on WhatsApp



A foremost member of the Lagos State Governor Advisory Council (GAC) and also All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Lanre Razak has urged government to intensify effort geared towards promotion of culture in Nigeria.
Addressing reporters during the traditional wedding of his daughter, Kofoworola to Anthony Ikuforiji in Lagos, said Nigerian values should be put on the front burners to preserve its rich culture.
He said the Southwest and Lagos in particular is a land of culture, noting that other parts of the country have benefitted from the values it showcased.
According to him, with over 250 ethnic nationalities in the country, culture and tourism would not only be of social benefit but of economic value.
The Balogun of Epe added that government must wake up to its duty by preserving the rich cultural heritage for the sake of posterity.
“The Ministry of Culture should promote the landmark heritages of the country. The heritages are well spelt out in marriages, festivals and folklores. They should promote Nigeria’s culture.
“With over 250 ethnic nationalities, the ministry has lots in its hand to keep it busy. We should have new cultural festivals detailing the background of Nigeria. It should harp on our strength, unity and social values.”
Razak said parents should place their wards above other pecuniary gains, stressing that children well guided by parents would ensure they don’t soil their parents’ names.
“The most valuable thing any parent should be proud of is to teach the children the virtue of good life. We must give them the training they deserve in life to make them relevant in the society.
“We must let them have what we call self reliance and the core value of the society. By the core value they must know how to respond to the senior or elders in the society. This should be part of their lives anywhere they found themselves.
“We must let them understand that you don’t suddenly become rich when you don’t do you job or work hard for it. At every point or whatever you try to do ensure that you keep a good name, considering where you are coming from. They must be encouraged to work hard, deploy their resources in a useful way and keep good companies.”
Razak expressed mixed feeling about the marriage of his daughter, noting that he was happy that the daughter was getting married, but was downcast that he would miss the bond that had existed between them.
“It is a game of mixed feelings because you are happy giving away your daughter and at the same time you will be missing her because is now part of the other family.
“So, as a parent, what I have done is to pray for them for God’s guidance in all that they do. They should have a successful marriage life and it shall be well with them.
“The couple should love themselves care for themselves, they must tolerate each other. Happiness in marriage is what you achieve gradually and it is always a learning process.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment