Share this on WhatsApp




Alimosho promises bloc votes

The Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s second coming endorsement politicking , has been given a boost with Alimosho the most populated area in Lagos indicates preparedness to massively queue behind him with substantial votes.

The Alimosho Federal Constituency  Coalition of Support Group over the weekend asserted their poise to mobilise massive votes in Alimosho for Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode  and guarantee him second term for his exceptional performance.

Teaming loyalists of the All Progressives Congress who gathered at the Grand Ovation hall in Alimosho weekend, expressed their satisfaction over the dividend of democracy facilitated by the Governor, stating unequivocally that he sure deserves another term.

Frontline political leaders and grassroots veterans of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the constituency who were part of the formidable G18 group that held sway in Alimosho for long were in attendance to declare total support for Ambode’s second term.

The initiative tagged”Operation Total Endorsement of Ambode for Second Term”, was targeted projecting the good works done by the Governor as a basis to allow him run again.

One of the staunch politicians present,Chief Olusegun Badejo, an APC chieftain and former council boss, who read the group’s speech said that Ambode’s infrastructural renewal strides and people-oriented initiatives informed  the support.

” We wish to publicly declare our unalloyed loyalty, confidence and trust in the leadership of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Not only has Mr Governor justified the confidence reposed in him by us at the outset of his tenure but has equally represented and respected the people’s mandate entrusted in his care with a high sense of duty, diligence and commitment.

“Today, the activities of Mr Governor in terms of socioeconomic and  infrastructure development going on simultaneously in every part of Lagos State are clear testimonies of his ability and determination to take Lagos to greater heights.

“A good turn deserves another, hence our collective decision to reciprocate your uncommon passion for service delivery and good government by declaring our total endorsement of your desire to pilot the affairs of the state one more time.

” May we assure you that not only will Alimosho people vote for you enmasse.We unequivocally declare our total support and shall mobilise the people of Alimosho massively behind Gov. Ambode second term bid to guarantee him unprecedented victory”.

Banking on the sizeable number of registered voters in Alimosho Federal Constituency, which was said to be about 700, 000,the APC leader said that group would return substantial percentage to Ambode.

Badejo, the Pioneer Chairman, Mosan Okunola Local Council Development Area, also appreciated Gov. Rauf Aregbesola for projecting  Alimosho in the Lagos polity which had hitherto translated to relevance and recognition.

He said that the group acknowledged the reduction in Alimosho quality votes since the the bastardisation of the legacy bequeathed to the area by Aregbesola.

Meanwhile the Deputy Chief whip of the Lagos State House of Assembly,Hon.Omotayo Oduntan Oyeledun who remained a leading light in the Alimosho politics on arrival at the venue was seen surrounded by loyalists, charging her on to vie for the Federal House of Representatives come 2019.

Speaking at the forum Oduntan who represents Alimosho constituency II, took a swipe on a certain cabal in the constituency, whose main focus is to whittle the strength of the youths and women who had good intention to bring about lots of good for the people.

She maintained that this is due to selfishness, self-centeredness and arrogance of some so called and self-acclaimed leaders that have continue to desecrate the political landscape.

“Today, we the leaders of APC in Alimosho resolved to provide productive, accountable and mutual respect leadership to our teeming party members.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment