Share this on WhatsApp

A member of the All Progressives Congress in Imo State, Mr. Okere Uzochukwu, on Friday, filed a suit before the Federal High Court in Abuja challenging the extension of the tenure of members of the National Working Committee of the party by one year.

Recall that the National Executive Committee of the party had on February 27, 2018 extended the tenure of the party at the state, local government and ward levels by a year.

Uzochukwu , who said he was an aspirant to the state chairmanship position of the party in Imo State , contended in the suit marked , FHC /ABJ / CS/ 219 / 2018, that the tenure extension was undemocratic and violated the provisions of the constitution , the Electoral Act and the constitution of the APC .

He sued the APC and the Independent National Electoral Commission as the first and second respondents.

Uzochukwu argued through his lawyer, Mr. Nnamdi Okere , that the extension of the tenure of the officials of the party at various levels was “the primary function and responsibility of the national convention ” by virtue of the provisions of Article 13 and 13 ( 3) ( ii ) of the constitution of the APC 2014 ( as amended) .

He, therefore, stressed that the tenure extension was unconstitutional and undemocratic since the national convention did not hold.

The plaintiff urged the court to hold that the tenure extension for the NWC, the state working committees as well as the local government and ward executive committees of the party commencing from June 2018 to June 2019 “is illegal , unconstitutional , null and void and of no effect .”

He urged the court to compel the incumbent John Odigie – Oyegun -led NWC and others to vacate their respective offices with effect fromJune 1, 2018, when they would have completed their four years tenure.

Meanwhile, the plaintiff also sought an order compelling INEC “to reject, cease to recognise and stop dealing with or having official communications with the Odigie -Oyegun – led National Working Committee” and others effective from effective from June 1, 2018, “for having spent the constitutionally allowed tenure of office.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment