Share this on WhatsApp
 
General Overseer of the latter rain Assembly, Tunde Bakare has castigated President Muhammadu Buhari deeming it fit to attend a wedding in Kano at the weekend while ignoring to visit Dapchi in Yobe state where over hundred female students were kidnapped two weeks ago.
 
On Saturday, at least 22 governors’ convereged on Kano, to celebrate the wedding of Idris Ajimobi and Fatima Ganduje, offsprings of Abiola Ajimobi, and Ibrahim Ganduje, governors of Oyo and Kano states, respectively.

Also in attendance was the president, and high-ranking members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), including Bola Tinubu, former governor of Lagos state.

Speaking at the Latter Rain Assembly on Sunday, Bakare said anyone who knows the true state of things in Nigeria will weep for the country.

He said the wedding, which came two days after Boko Haram killed some UN aid workers in Rann, and two weeks after the abduction of the Dapchi school girls in Yobe, shows the insensitivity of Nigerian leaders.

“Forgive my ill-mannerism, but I could not comprehend why a governor will celebrate the wedding of his daughter, and another governor of his son, on the front pages of newspapers, flashing it before our eyes, when other peoples’ daughters are in captivity,” Bakare said.

“If any of them had lost a daughter in that captivity, would they celebrate that way? I know the Bible says rejoice with them that rejoice, but I do not know what the president of Nigeria was doing there.

“I looked at him and said the president of Nigeria wanted to come to my daughter’s wedding, and I said to him, sir, don’t come. That is beneath your office. Face the work of the state and keep serving.

“And 22 governors showed up to mark register, when 110 daughters of citizens of your nation were captured by Boko Haram that you said you have already technically defeated?

“It just shows how insensitive our leaders are. We have gotten to a stage that our president has become a king and a monarch. That his son who rode his pleasurable bike that almost claimed his life, will be returning from an overseas trip, where he had received special healthcare that Nigerians cannot afford, that it took a whole minister of state to go and welcome him, because he has no job.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment