Share this on WhatsApp
 
Capital market investors who are worried about the free fall in insurance stocks prices on the Nigerian Stock Exchange have called on the regulators of the market to take action towards mitigating the problems that are responsible for the sub-optimal performance in the sector.
Expressing dismay over how their investments steadily depreciate in value on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, the stakeholders stressed the need for all the regulatory agencies to immediately review some of the laws and practices that are responsible.
Asides reviewing industry laws, they also called for new approaches to be devised in order to enhance optimum efficiency and forestall further stagnation in their share prices.
Last week, five insurance stocks recorded depreciations after transactions. Sovereign Trust Insurance led the losers’ table with 20.83% to close at N0.38 per share. Unic Diversified Holdings followed in the losing streak with 18.52% and closed at ₦0.22 per share.
Also among the top losers are African Alliance Insurance which lost 14.23 % and closed at ₦0.36 per share. Royal Exchange dropped 11.43% to close at ₦0.31 per share while Standard Alliance also lost 8 .33% and closed at ₦0.44 per share.
The insurance stocks capitalisation on the Nigerian Stock Exchange is said to have dropped by ₦60 million within the month of February in the aftermath of the implementation of a new pricing methodology.
The Nigerian Stock Exchange commenced implementation of the one kobo rule on January 29, 2018, from an initial floor of 50 kobo per share. What this means is that stocks can now trade at a minimum of one kobo per share.
This new pricing rule is responsible for the recorded decline in stocks prices of nearly one-third of the quoted companies who now trade at one kobo as against the initial floor price of 50 Kobe.
Some of the insurance stocks that now trade below 50 kobo include Equity Assurance, Goldlink Insurance, African Alliance and Cornerstone Insurance. Others are- Guinea Insurance, Consolidated Hallmark Insurance, Lassaco Insurance and Mutual Benefit Insurance.
Sir Sunny Nwosu, founder of the Independence Shareholders Association of Nigeria reacted to this development in a telephone interview with The Guardian, while maintaining that insurance regulators must find a way to resolve the problems militating against success in the insurance sector.
The Nigerian insurance industry is one of the most under-performing industries in the country with the gross premium of $1.9 billion it generates. It contributes only 0.73.4% to the Nigerian GDP compared to its counterparts in Kenya and South Africa which account for 17% and 3.4% of those countries’ GDPs; respectively.
This is despite its immense growth opportunities, and the fact that it is highly important in the quest to ensure national development.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment