Share this on WhatsApp



The Courier Regulatory department (CRD), an arm of the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) has revoked the operational licenses of 17 courier operators for allegedly failing to regularize their courier operations.
 The Department also decried the increasing number of unlicensed courier/delivery companies in the country which it described as economic sabotage.
 Dr. Ishaya Diwa, General Manager, Courier Regulatory Department (CRD) made the remarks while briefing newsmen after the department raided five unlicensed courier operators, arrested their managers, confiscated some courier items and sealed their offices, for operating without courier license.
 He said the five operators were sealed after series of investigations on their activities.
 He listed the five courier companies as Ondot Courier Ltd, Golden Victory Express & Courier Services, Swiftlink Logistics Ltd, Pronto Delivery & Logistics Services and Ebeco Express Company.
 The General Manager explained that their hope and ambition is to make courier operations in Nigeria one of the best in the world, stressing that the “activities of these unlicensed operators create bad image for the country, as courier business is a worldwide industry.”
 He noted that “the illegal operators has brought a lot of challenges for the legal operators, they dump people’s luggages, engage in undercutting and under-pricing, which is not good for the economy.
 “It is our duty and responsibility to make it difficult for those who are not suppose to be in the industry from operating”
 Dr. Diwa, listed the 17 courier companies that their licenses were revoked as Central Logistics & Support Services Ltd, Early Link Courier Ltd, Ekenedili Chukwu Express Ltd, Fastlink Courier, First Choice Courier, First Post Express Delivery Services Ltd, Latommie Global Business Ltd, Murphy Courier Service.
Others are Scansped Network Ltd, Tradeways Express, United Courier, Barnet Logistics Ltd, Big Courier Ltd, Cheersline Courier Services, Distinct Courier Express, International Express Logistics Services and Metropol Courier.
He further advised the general public not to deal with any of these revoked companies because their licenses have been revoked and they are no longer courier operators in Nigeria.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment