Share this on WhatsApp

A legal practitioner, Natasha Adeiza has blamed Nigeria’s Minister of Mines and the governor of Kogi state, Yahaya Bello for the continued comatose state of the Ajaokuta Steel Mill.


Adeiza who made these claims during a sectoral debate on the Ajaokuta Steel Mill on the floor of the House of Representatives, also blamed the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Acting Registrar of Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), Azuka Abigail and Global Infrastructure Nigeria Limited.

She noted that despite several overtures by the Russian Federation, especially through a letter personally written by the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, were rebuffed, noting in particular that the Obasanjo administration declined the offer from the Russians to help. 

Instead, the administration conceded the plant to a company with neither the technical expertise nor the financial wherewithal.

She added that Musa Yar’Adua’s administration, through a report by the Jimoh-Mogaji-led committee, ordered for the prosecution of all officials involved in the concession.

However, the EFCC has failed to reopen the case against the indicted officials even after she and other patriotic lawyers offered to work on the case pro bono on behalf of the country.

Adeiza revealed that the former Attorney General, Muhammed Adoke, with the approval of President Goodluck Jonathan, agreed to an out-of-court settlement with a company called Global Infrastructure (Nigeria) Limited (GINL), after the court already struck out a case by the concessioner, and the government still agreed to pay the company the sum 
of $525million in line with the recommendation from the former Vice President’s (Namadi Sambo) committee.

The revelations continued as she presented two separate concession agreements. She also alleged that the concession agreement by the current administration is skewed in favour of the concessioner against the interest of Nigerians.

“Right here, I have two agreements, one by Adoke and the re-concession one by Fayemi. The two agreements are one and the same, [and] in fact [they have the] same typographical errors,” she said.

Furthermore, Adeiza added that the conspiracy also extended to the current Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello. She disclosed that her investigations showed that the Ajaokuta Limited company, recently registered by the Kogi State Government as a special purpose vehicle to concession the Ajaokuta Steel Company in partnership with Global Infrastructure Limited, favours GINL more.

According to her, the company’s registration was invalidated in lieu of the investigation carried out by the CAC following a petition from her. However, she said another letter from the Acting Registrar of CAC gave the green light to the Ajaokuta Company citing an order from the Presidency.

She disclosed that, after careful scrutiny, the arrangement by Kogi State breached the legality of composition, as the two directors of the company were not from Kogi State and also staff of Global Infrastructure Nigeria Limited.

Therefore, she recommended a halt to the concession plan, noting that a facility with the potential for weapon making should not be in the hands of an individual. She urged the government to take full control, while engaging the Russian Federation as a technical adviser.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment