Share this on WhatsApp



The five-time Olympian, who was born on October 28, 1975, speaks German and Italian; Tennis star
Olufunke in a chat with National Daily Esther Egbe recently narrated the positives and negatives of her life, career. Excerpts:
How was growing up like?
While growing up, I started representing Nigeria at 14. Maybe, yes because of the fact table tennis is a sport I love so much and my dream was to go international on it. Yes, I knew I was going to be like this because I gave it more than 100%.  Growing up was like learning a lot from people, it was tough, I got jilted, I got tainted, I got humiliated, which a lot of people don’t know anything about. People are like this girl, I would love to be like her but they don’t know all that. But I learnt a lot in the hard way. But one thing I can tell you frankly is that all those things I learnt then, they made me who I am today, they made me very, very strong. That is why a lot of things that will happen to me now, I will just overlook it and say to myself, ko matter jare (it doesn’t matter)’. Growing up was very tough but then I don’t have any regrets at all. So, now I just look back and when I see people going through the same thing I will be able to advise them. That what’s happening right now, it will soon be over. So, my growing up was very very tough.
How long have you been representing Nigeria?
I started representing Nigeria at the age of 14. I give God almighty the glory for this talent and all that I have achieved today. This are some of the downs in my life that made me a strong woman.
Have you ever done the unusual for the love of the game ?
Yes,when I was in primary 6, I ran out of school to play a competition at Rowe park and I was seriously caned by my teacher ,but I never gave up on Table tennis. I was always booed every time I played a competition back then in Nigeria because I was very shy! I asked why and I was told that I was proud, arrogant, blunt and I don’t mix with people. I’m talking about Funke at the age of 13 till 19.I cried a lot ,went through a lot, and there was even a time the crowd was going to stab me in Lagós.  Because I defeated their darling Abiola Odumosu my arch rival back then at Rowe park.
Who is your N0.1 fan?
My Number one fan is my father, consoled me and still never gave up on Table Tennis .
Why did you leave Nigeria?
My decision to leave Nigeria after my diploma course at University of Lagos to pursue my professional career was my decision even when I was advised not to go. I left Italy after  four yaers to Germany in 1998  because  I wanted more, that was my decision. I got pregnant during my career and I was confused on what to do, but I kept it and I was still playing professional Table Tennis till I was 7 months pregnant which is like a taboo in Nigeria! .
Did you win any competition during  pregnancy period?
Yes,i played African Championship and won it , though nobody knew I was pregnant !That was my decision . I gave birth to my first child in 2003 and I played all Africa games the same year and won 4 gold Medals for Nigeria.
Why did you broke up with  your baby father?
My child was barely six months old. I went to see my boyfriend of ten years relationship and I saw him sleeping in a bed with another woman.  I was heartbroken .The next day i had to travel to Australia, Sydney 2000. I cried all the way from Nigeria to Australia but i never gave up on men and my training.
How were you abused physical, emotional and mentally?
I was physically, sexually, emotionally and mentally abused by a man that was ten years older than me . This man beat me up for more than three years and i remembered always going to Unilag with a battered face but i still never gave up on Table Tennis , Dead or Living. That was my decision I was duped of all my properties and my bank account was in his name(Olodo Funke). I left everything without looking back and i started my life all over again.
When was your worst moment?
It was very hard for me, but that was my decision I fell in love again with my best friend here in Germany , three  months to our wedding, he went to Nigeria on holiday and he was shot by armed robbers ! I went through hell here in Germany without him. I mourned him for two years , stopped going to Nigeria because of him but still never gave up on Table Tennis and living .
Table Tennis delayed my education?
Yes, table tennis stopped my education for a while. I went to University of Lagos for my diploma, this one year thing that time around 1992-1993, all these challenges of schools being shut down due to one cultism activities or the other. You know that after my diploma, I had wanted to go for a degree in Mass Communication because that is what I have always wanted to do in my life but unfortunately due to all these problems I couldn’t. So,that is when I packed my bags and moved to Europe. And you know that education is very hard because of the language. Yes, it disturbed me a little bit but then in Germany here I am still doing a lot of courses here and there. I still do what I love to do but what I actually love to study, table tennis stopped me from doing that.
Men still ask me out spite of my wedding band?
The overtures I get from the opposite sex are even more than what I got when I was single. So, many temptations here and there but like I said I thank God for the wisdom, but it’s not easy.
Who is your hero in Tennis?
The biggest table tennis name I most adore is sister Majekodunmi (African table tennis queen for decades). You see what I actually had in mind while growing up was that I should grow up so that I could beat all of them. I see them play and I will be like ‘You can be better than them’. It was a challenge for me like I said when I started playing. I started playing in junior level but before you know it, I started playing in the senior level and by then I had started beating some of them that were still active. So, I can’t say I really have big names in Nigeria that I actually looked up to in the profession. Maybe I was looking up to the Chinese players because they were the best. But talking about Nigeria, I think it is sister Lawunmi Majekodunmi.
How have been in coping with sponsorship from NTTF?
I have been spending my money to represent Nigeria lately and I can’t remember the last time I’ve been payed any allowance or the last time i was awarded for winning for my country. I’m very hurt about a lot of things that’s happening in sports in Nigeria but because of the love I have for my country, I’m still trying my best to keep on keeping on. That’s my decision .
When were you born?
I was born in the 70s and I know one thing for sure that people born in 70s don’t give up on things easily.
Words for your fans?
We learned  . So to some of you discouraging me, you are just encouraging me indirectly because I have gone through a lot in my life that has made me stronger than you. Live your life and allow others do the same. I ain’t giving up on my dreams because of some no life, no dream people.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment