Share this on WhatsApp
By Chioma Obinagwam

On the back of a previously signed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) is set to strengthen partnership in the area of capacity building.

The ACCA disclosed that it was established in a follow-up meeting held between both parties led by Helen Brand, OBE the Chief Executive of ACCA and Chief Dr. Ede Ikemefuna President, CITN.

The scope of relationship between both parties will cater for all members of CITN through the CPTP (Continuous Professional Training Programmes) and exemptions through accreditation of CITN programme.

The partnership, the association stated, provides support for the development of the local tax variant and helping CITN members including non-accountants to acquire qualification through various pathways and support the capacity building for its members.

Chief Executive of ACCA Helen Brand OBE in her opening remarks said: “ACCA has established alliances with other professional bodies around the world and it is willing to contribute to the development of coherent tax systems by collaborating with government and agencies to put tax cooperation ahead of tax competition in Nigeria. This partnership  is considerate of the diversity of the institute.”

The association said the potential areas for collaboration include policy and research as well as ACCA/IFAC research, which highlights importance of cross-border collaborations.

Taiwo Oyedele, Partner & Head of Tax, PwC and ACCA Council member, also present at the meeting, expressed his pleasure at the progress made and hoped the benefits can be fast racked across sub-Saharan Africa for ACCA.

Jamil Ampomah, Director Sub-Saharan Africa, ACCA expressed that ACCA aims to see progress from the implementation of the MoU and he appreciated both teams’ commitment to deliver on agreed objectives.Jonathan Mbewe, Head, Education and Development, SSA, who was also present at the meeting, thanked the CITN team for their commitment to the partnership and assured them that ACCA was in this relationship for the longhaul.

He reinforced it is a significant period with the recent change in the ACCA qualification and it is a viable opportunity to enhance the  institutes.

Jonathan Mbewe, Head, Education and Development, SSA, who was also present at the meeting, thanked the CITN team for their commitment to the partnership and assured them that ACCA was in the relationship for the longhaul.

Chief Ikemefuna, however, expressed his delight with the development of the relationship following the MoU signing and the unveiling of the partnerships on 2nd November, 2017.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment