Share this on WhatsApp
By Richards Adeniyi

The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Murtala Muhammed Airport, Ikeja, Command, onrecently accused the officials of ground handling companies of aiding and abetting stealing of cargoes at the warehouses.
 
Jayne Shoboiki, the new Area Controller of the command, made the allegation while addressing stakeholders at the Customs office in Lagos Airport.
 
“Most of the officials of ground handling companies are being alleged to be conniving with the clearing agents to pilfer cargoes at the warehouses. I have challenged the officials of these two operators but they denied any knowledge about the allegations.
“However, when I showed them my facts, they could not deny it. I see no reason why there should still be pilfering cargoes at the airport because the importers had paid the necessary duties to clear their goods.
 
“If you need any assistance from the Customs, you can always get them but don’t steal cargoes. I will not tolerate it,” she warned.
 
Mrs. Shoboiki also advised them to desist from bringing in prohibited items, adding that offenders would be punished for such infractions. “In the import guidelines, we have the role of the Customs, the terminal operators, clearing agents and others. We should be able to follow these guidelines.
 
The new Comptroller promised that she would operate an open door policy and was willing to listen to suggestions from all stakeholders on how to improve the services of the agency.
 
Responding, Ahmed Gulmah, the Head, Corporate Services, Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) PLC, said the operators were not aware of the allegations.
 
Mr. Gulmah who said that no system was absolutely perfect, said that NAHCO would cooperate with the new customs boss to checkmate illegal activities of its workers.
 
He said the company would collaborate with the customs officials to ensure that it increased its revenue generation.
Meanwhile, the stakeholders in aviation sector while reacting to the Customs allegation, alerted the government on security implication of the criminal activities of some staff of the cargo handling operators at the airport.
 
They said the current security threats in the country could be traced to the activities of these unpatriotic elements as they aid smuggling of dangerous weapons into the country.
 
They call on security agencies to run security checks on all staff of cargo handling companies and weed out criminal elements among them, as the airport is a highly sensitive security environment.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment