Share this on WhatsApp


airline forced to provide explanations

Some passengers have lamented an attempt by Arik Air to cover up a near mishap involving the airline’s flight W3304 to Accra, Ghana on Tuesday, 6th of March.

One of the passengers who spoke with National Daily on conditions of anonymity said 35 minutes into the 55 minutes flight on the Dash 8 NextGen propeller aircraft that took off from Lagos, he started perceiving something smelling like a burning stuff.

“Shortly after the guy sitting next to me asked if I perceived any smell of burning stuff and that confirmed my worst fears. Before you could say jack, smoke has filled the cabin. The air hostesses were busy scampering around opening the cabins and the lavatories to check if they could trace the source of the smoke without success.”

He said the oxygen masks that were always being advertised during the safety demo prior to take-off also failed to work during the emergency. “We were handed tissue papers (otherwise called serviets) to use to cover our noses to minimize and filter out possible carbon monoxide inhalation.”

Speaking further, the passenger disclosed that the pilot confirm their worst fear when he later addressed passengers through the public address system informing them that had smoke coming into the cabin, and that they don’t know the source and that they have declared emergency.

He also claimed that when the aircraft finally landed in Accra at 7:15pm, Accra time, there was no Arik official to address them nor any manner of first aid attention given to the passengers to help manage the stress and possible elevated blood pressures.

However, reacting to the claim by the passenger, authorities of the airline denied any cover-up, saying it observed all standard operating safety procedures when the smoke was detected in the cabin 81 miles from Accra.

According to the PR and Communications Manager for Arik, Adebanji Ola, the captain of the flight briefed the passengers accordingly assuring them that the aircraft was under control and safe for landing in Accra, adding that aircraft landed safely in Accra without further incident and all passengers disembarked normally.

While assuring customers that the aircraft is currently undergoing comprehensive inspections from the Airline’s team of engineers to ascertain the cause of the smoke, Arik said relevant aviation authorities in Ghana and Nigeria have been briefed appropriately on the incident.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment