Share this on WhatsApp



The intractable violent uprising of the Fulani herdsmen in rural communities across Nigeria leading to killings of innocent citizens and destruction of property worth billions of naira has been causing serious threat to national security and national integration. The strong perturbation over the Fulani killings and the seeming inability of the All Progressives Congress (APC) controlled federal government to tame the surge or bring any Fulani herdsman to justice compelled a former Minister of Defence and a former Chief of Army Staff, retired Lieutenant General  Danjuma, to advocate self-defence, casting vote of no confidence on the Nigerian Army.
However, in the search for peace in the country, Northern Governors Forum held consultation with the leadership of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association to deliberate on how to find lasting solutions to the wanton killings across the Nigeria.
It was gathered that participants at the meeting in Sokoto deliberated on the root cause of the killings, the ways to contain the violence and sustain permanent solutions.
Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State had expressed that the 19 northern states are worried by the rising cases of insecurity involving herder and farmers, expressing optimism that their intervention will help in finding lasting solution to the conflicts.
He stated that the governors were intervening in order to complement efforts of the federal government. Shettima disclosed that they wish to adopt local conflict resolution mechanism to restore trust and understanding among all the people of the region.
It was gathered that: “The leadership of Miyetti Allah, led by the National President, Muhammed Kirowa, told the meeting that the approach to conflict resolution adopted by political leaders in some states is not helpful in finding lasting peace.
“In his views, political leaders, especially, Governors, should approach issues of peace in neutral perspective, not as biased party. He said their members have lived in many of these conflict-prone communities for centuries without conflict, but wondered why is the situation getting out of hand now.”
There were indications that the meeting made no resolution but participants at the Sokoto meeting were said to be contemplating new dates for further meetings which may be scheduled to take place in Abuja, Jos, Makurdi and Kaduna, thereafter.
Northern governors who attended that the meeting in Sokoto, include Kashim Shettima of Borno State, Chairman, Northern Governors Forum, host Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State and Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment