Share this on WhatsApp



By  Esther Egbe 
MFM FC second leg match against MC Algier was high following an impressive performance at the Soccer Temple in Lagos but it was very short-lived as the Algerian didn’t need a minute to pull level on aggregate and take the lead on the away goal.
It was to get worse and by the final whistle it was six goal to nil in favor of the Algeria on the night and 7-2 on aggregate which inadvertently saw the Prayer Boys dumped out of the CAF Champions League and into the CAF Confederation Cup.
Head Coach of MFM FC, Coach Ilechukwu came out immediately after the match to take full responsibility for the defeat but promised that the lessons learnt here would be used to great effect in the CAF Confederation Cup.
Kamara told National Daily that , “Blame me for the loss against MC Algiers. My players did their absolute best and the management also tried there best but my Best wasn’t enough to qualify the team to the CAF Champions League group stage.”
He added, “I understand that a lot of people in Nigeria would have been disappointed and at this point I can only take full responsibility and apologize to our ever loyal fans, the Lagos State Government and Dr. Daniel Olukoya.”
He went on to throw his support behind Plateau United ahead of their crucial return leg against Etoile Du Sahel on Sunday at the Sani Abacha Stadium, Kano as they look to overturn a 4-2 deficit in a bid to qualify for the group stage.
On how he intends to move his team forward from the very low point, Coach Ilechukwu said, “We have learnt a lot of lessons in these last two matches against MC Algier and we would be looking to come back home and apply all we have learnt so that we never suffer this experience again. The CAF Confederation Cup and the NPFL are our focus now and we will work hard on the field and on the minds of the players so we can move on positively from this experience.”
The newly appointed Nigeria U-23 Assistant Coach concluded by appreciating the support of the fans, NFF, LMC, Lagos State Government and team Proprietor, Dr. Daniel Olukoya all through the campaign.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment