Share this on WhatsApp



For staffers, customers, partners and well-wishers of August Eye Security Services Limited, it was all joy this past weekend.  The company had every reason to celebrate the launch of a new logo on a day that coincided with the birthdays of both its Chairman Chukwuma Okpaka, and CEO Amb. Roy Oamien Okhidievbie.
In its quest to expand its vision to provide quality services to humanity in the intelligence and specialized security solutions industry, AUGUST EYE Security Services Limited, unveiled a brand new logo and two other subsidiaries, AUGUST EYE HR-Outsourcing and AUGUST EYE Cooperative at an event in Lagos.
The event attracted dignitaries from the Nigerian Military Service, the Nigerian Air Force Service and the Nollywood industry, represented by actor Owolabi Ibrahim among other distinguished guests.
Speaking at the unveiling ceremony, Chief Executive Officer of August Eye, Amb. Roy Okhidievbie said: “I know that there are security situations in Nigeria and there are so many security practitioners who are not sincere in practicing security because when you are talking of security of life and assets, profit comes last. Therefore, I came forth to give security to the core and I came forth to see that people get value when they pay for security.”
The chairman, Pastor Chuks Okpaka, in his speech at the event, saluted the efforts of the CEO and his team in making August Eye a success. He said “today we celebrate faith, passion and energy, hence I enjoin everyone to salute the effort Amb. Roy and his team have put into this company.”
“August Eye embodies hope and strength to a lot of people. Today we are unveiling a logo that encompasses not just the security outfits but also the HR and Cooperative. These are all designed and put together to help strengthen people, help people gain access to jobs, to give people finances to help them get started in life and those without directions to give them direction.
Speaking to Pressmen on the business environment in the country, Amb. Roy stated how it was purely a divine intervention for the company to gain the trust of its customer base considering the fact that they do not have marketers. He further went on to elaborate the miracle story that led to the founding of the company. In a time it was difficult to get license to provide security services, God showed up and the rest he says is history.  He also attempted to touch on national matters, as he declared himself old enough at 48 not to be categorized as youth.  He is one of the great under 50s that run companies in Nigeria, pay taxes and employ people who couldn’t go through a good university and can’t pay them well, all because of the harsh economic situation in Nigeria.
On the problem of national security, Amb. Roy said “The only problem we have is willpower. Willpower of leadership to execute penalties, willpower to deploy intelligent systems, intelligent awareness, gatherings, willpower of leadership to use the paraphernalia of government to encumber criminality and this haywire of taking lives and burning communities etc.”
“We are degrading our military forces by bringing them into matters that do not concern them. We are supposed to empower our police force. I don’t understand why senior army generals are holding civilian positions after retiring from the army. They should go and rest because they have exhausted all their power and skills when in the military force, so if given that power, they have no other option than to empower the military and we are just going in circles and the pitiable thing is that our brothers and sisters are dying”.
The CEO further told pressmen that the civilians and most especially the media have crucial roles to play in the security of the nation. “The media need to go into the crisis areas, to go undercover; they need collaboration to pick out the genuine presence of killers and marauders. They need to go and bring the information and then the people need to channel the information rightly to achieve results.
Also, on the day on the unveiling, the Congress Of Nigerian Youth ( CONYO) presented the CEO with a special recognition award. He received the Award for SERVICE TO THE NATION 2018 as ‘the crème de LA crème of extol leadership, a detribalized Nigeria, a bulldozer, a working encyclopedia, a pathfinder, egalitarian man of integrity, a man of quintessential character, a dexterous leader, a guiding light and role model, a dogged capacity builder, a man who has toiled day and night to develop her father land, a father and inspiration to the Nigerian Youths, A distinguished comrade, An Aluta 5-Star General’.
The award was presented to him by Amb. Ololade  Paul, the Chairman STN Award 2017/2018. Amb. Ololade told pressmen that, “We are here today with our humility and alutaristic spirit to celebrate a personality of high resourceful assuming gentleman, a philanthropist, an international security management strategist, a man of transparent honesty, a dynamic tactician, a diligent worker, an indefatigable achiever, a lover of truth and a strategic planner.
“The pathfinder, who is an unusual inspirational to service, humanity and leadership by virtue of tenacity for details and resilience to withstand challenges, he is also a strong personality with uncommon zeak and doggedness, the Spartan quality which can only be found among few men folks”.
 He said the CEO is naturally loved and admired by people, a religious and dependable man, a man who achieves greatness through assiduousness efforts, self-will and sheer determination, a good listener, a man with critical thinking skills.
“He is a strong advocate of unity, peace and progress of our great country Nigeria, making him have  over 10 years of unquestionable and cognate experience in both private and public sector”.
The Congress Of Nigerian Youth ( CONYO) is the representative organization of all Nigerian Youth, at home and in diaspora with membership strength of 75.1 million Youth. Congo has an operational working relationship with ECOWAS Youth council (EYC) World Youth Organization (WYO) and other international Youths organizations.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment