Share this on WhatsApp

Says Govt’ll continue to judiciously utilise tax payers’ money




GovernorAkinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State on Tuesday commissioned the Alapere Road and junction improvement works in Agboyi Ketu area, with an assurance that his administration will continue to judiciously put the monies paid by tax payers to good use.
Governor Ambode, at the commissioning ceremony, attended by party leaders, key stakeholders and scores of excited residents, said the 1.4km road was a fulfillment of one of the recommendations of the Traffic Summit organized by his administration in November 2015.
He said the summit, among others, recommended that critical road junctions should be redesigned, improved and or upgraded to meet present and future needs of road users to reduce travel times and support economic activities.
“Undoubtedly, this infrastructure, with the improvement it has conferred on this axis, and the signalization of the traffic here, will not only serve the purpose of reducing travel time and resolving traffic gridlock, it will also increase the value of properties in this area and become a source of prosperity to the owners. That is the Lagos of our dream. A Lagos where we all succeed, together,” the Governor said.
Governor Ambode also announced the approval for the commencement of the Phase three of the government’s Traffic Intervention Plan in the Ketu – Alapere Area, including the Dualization of the Demuren Road (Alapere Roundabout to Ketu Junction) and Davies Streets (Mr Biggs Junction to Mile 12).
He said the Phase three is a strategic linkage between the Third Mainland Bridge – Ogudu – Alapere Corridor via Alapere and Ikorodu Road – Ketu – Ojota – Mile 12 Corridor and that it would provide an alternative route for Lagosians, thereby taking pressure off the Ojota Interchange.
The State Government had earlier delivered a standard Layby in Alapere and many inner roads in the axis as part of its comprehensive plan to decongest traffic in the area.
Responding to an appeal by residents for the construction of the Agboyi-Ketu Link Bridge, the Governor assured that work would commence on the project before the end of the year.
 “We have talked about the Ketu-Agboyi Link Bridge in the Town Hall Meeting; I know that is the most important project in this community. So, we have a contract between this community and government that that is what you want and so we will give it to you,” the Governor said

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment