Share this on WhatsApp







 
The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) says Nnamdi Azikiwe’s quest for power and his “greed” to rub shoulders with the western leaders put Ndigbo in the “mess they found themselves”.

Speaking at the weekend, Emma Powerful, IPOB spokesman, who admitted that Zik was a brilliant man, blamed him for some of the woes the south-easterners are facing.

Powerful said the “unproductive ambition” made the south to end up being led by people whose “value system is irreconcilable with theirs”.

“Zik, despite his undoubted brilliance, was not a very good politician. He remains till date the only person that led an independence struggle and never got the chance to lead the country after independence,” he said.

He said present day Igbo leaders have continued in that failed politics of Zik, adding that the only way out is to dissolve Nigeria, anything short is cosmetic and will be resisted by IPOB.

“Zik was naive in thinking Britain were going to hand over power to him. Zik’s dream and greed to lead the world’s biggest black nation just to rub shoulders with the western leaders put us in this mess. It was that unrealizable aspiration and unproductive ambition that ensured we ended up being led by people whose value system is irreconcilable with ours.
 
“The issue is not about Igbo leaders not doing enough to promote Igbo interest, the problem is that Igbo leaders are actively engaged in the undermining of collective Igbo interest. With the notable exception of Gov. Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, the rest are mere errand boys for Abuja and the caliphate.”

“Many people don’t know that IPOB has even more significant presence in Igweocha (Rivers State) than anywhere else in Biafraland but you don’t hear Ijaw, Ikwerre Igbo, Ndoni or even Ogoni politicians castigate IPOB the way Igbo politicians do on a regular basis. That tells you all you need to know about where their loyalty lies.

“Yoruba elders never publicly condemned OPC, Arewa Consultative Forum, till date they have not offered any categorical condemnation of Boko Haram and herdsmen but Igbo leaders themselves canvassed for this government to deploy soldiers to the south-east to kill innocent agitators. These same leaders never ran to Buhari to send soldiers to stop herdsmen from slaughtering our people all over Enugu state.


















Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment