Share this on WhatsApp



By Esther Egbe
The President-General, Nigeria Football Supporters Club, Rafiu Ladipo  and his Vice president Vincent Okumagba,sets him in that deadly explosive mood.  A man he nurtured to stardom, he has suddenly grown to dislike because of a passion that once united them.
Since the crisis broke out in the Supporters club,  Ladipo has painstakingly avoided Okumagba,  a young businessman who has risen so quick in a shortwhile to rub shoulders with the self acclaimed lord of the flies. Ladipo rules the supporters club but his dominance of over four decades is now threatened by his own soldiers whom he trained through the ranks.
Last week in Lagos, during the University of Lagos alumni recognition awards night, Ladipo was pencilled down for a special recognition award, while an icon of women football in Nigeria and Africa, Aisha Falode was also in attendant for an award as one of the greats of this reverred institution.
The Okumagba troop had come to honour Aisha, a woman they respect and adore following years of friendship and unblemished relationship .
Now when the moment everyone had been waiting for finally came and Aisha was invited to the podium, she rose to a loud applause as she stepped forward gorgeously to the admiration of all present.
Her movement left tongues wagging, her swags left many salivating in admiration of a 50 year old beauty.
An amazing amazon blessed with the beauty of an angel and the meekness of a saint.
The Okumagba troop coloured the occasion with the best of music never heard in this part of the world while Rafiu Ladipo rose from his seat,  summoned his men and asked them to throw decorium to the wind.  Enemity and hatred took a back seat as sanity quickly prevailed.
An agelong rivalry was broken, the bond of enemity was shattered as old friends unite on one stage for just one woman whose goodwill has endeared her to all.
NFF president Amaju Pinnick defied the temptation of a very busy schedule to also honour the princess of African football.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment