Share this on WhatsApp

The Adamawa state university, the Federal polytechnic, and the college of Health technology, all located in Mubi town, were hurriedly close down following fears of an imminent attack on the town by the Boko Haram terrorist group on Wednesday.
 
A source within the Adamawa state university Mubi, disclosed that the closure became imminent when some unidentified persons surface in the town last week and began to recruit youngsters enticing them with huge quantity of Dollars.
 
The source revealed that it was the same pattern the insurgents used before they invaded and occupied the town in 2014 with enormous casualties.
 
On Wednesday, the Mubi Emirate council headed by the Emir, Alhaji Abubabkar Isa Ahmadu, directed all village and district heads to report to the security agencies unknown faces in their domain.
 
 The closure of these three schools is coming close on the heels of the closure of the Moddibo Adams University of Technology, Mautech, Yola , two weeks ago after a bloody students riot in which 2 students reportedly lost their lives.
 
Meanwhile, the management of the Federal Polytechnic Mubi in Adamawa on Thursday assured the public that the security situation in the institution was stable. 
 
Dr. David Gbenyi, Deputy Rector Academic made this known on Thursday through phone while reacting to the rumor over security threat to Mubi to our correspondent in Yola.
 
Gbenyi, who spoke in the absence of the Rector, Dr. Sadiq Yahya said that though the institution did not receive any threat of attack from any quarter. 

He said that normal academic activities were going on on the campus, adding that there was no panic in the institution.
 
“When we heard the rumor over Boko Haram threat to attack Mubi, the management hurriedly summoned our internal security stakeholders and they confirmed to us that all we heard was a rumor. 

“We again reached out to the security agencies within Mubi and still got the assurances that all is well.
 
“So our situation is very stable and we are well secured as our robust partnership with security agencies is always yielding good results. 

“Normal academic activities are going on and we assure the public that no security threat to Mubi in general and the Federal polytechnic in particular, ‘ Gbenyi said
 
You can recalls that a rumor broke out over Boko Haram attack on Mubi community creating public panic within Mubi and its environs.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment