Share this on WhatsApp

 
Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar’s opinion that it was wrong to address killer herdsmen as Fulani has become a thing of discord between Femi Fani-Kayode, former minister of aviation, and Reno Omokri, former aide of ex-President Goodluck Jonathan.
 
According to Atiku Abubakar, it was a misnomer to use the term ‘killer herdsmen of Fulani extraction’ or ‘killer Fulani herdsmen. He said the vast majority of Fulani people are peaceful and live in harmony with other ethnicities.
 
But Fani-Kayode, on Saturday, said he was shocked by Abubakar’s assertion, adding that “it is most unlike him to speak in this way”.

“Must we continue to mock the memories of those that have been slaughtered by shielding those who butchered them? Have we no shame or remorse? Are this childish semantics and infantile denials really necessary?”

Replying to his comment, Omokri said Fani-Kayode misquoted Abubakar and put words in his mouth.

According to him, most of the herdsmen perpetrating the act are Mbororo, adding that they “differ from the Fulani as the Tiv defer from the Igbo”.

Citing an example of Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike, suspected kidnapper better known as Evans, Omokri said Evans is known as a kidnapper, not “Igbo kidnapper”.

He asked Fani-Kayode to apologise, asking if he would like such to be done to him.

“Actually, most of those involved in these killings are Mbororo also known as Bororo. I did a broadcast on this last year in London. If the Mbororo speak, the Fulani cannot understand them. The Mbororo differ from the Fulani as the Tiv defer from the Igbo.

“It is obvious who is being dishonest here. Look at the 2 quotes. Nigerians can read for themselves. You misquoted @atiku. It is in black and white. Plain as day. Why did you not just quote what he said? Why did you have to add and remove to what he said?

“Let us face the issue at hand instead of trying to divert it. You dishonestly misquoted @atiku and this is the proof. Be man enough to accept it and apologize. Would you like it if it’s done to you? Look Femi, you lied. Deal with it. I will not follow you into the gutter. I don’t need to suck up to @atiku. I made a fortune in US dollars from just one bestseller! I suck up to the truth not to men!





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment