Share this on WhatsApp
Hon. Oladipupo Olorunrinu,a lawmaker at the Lagos State House of Assembly has dispelled the rumour that there are factions in the state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).





Olorunrinu, representing Amuwo Odofin Constituency 1,the only lawmaker from the party in the assembly, maintained that the PDP in the state had no issue on ground and that he remained a representative of the people at the grassroots from the party.

“I would not say that there are no issues in Lagos PDP, there are rancours in every party. The two assemblies organised by some of our leaders are meant to propagate the party.

“It is just a result of disagreement between the party Chairman in the state, Hon. Moshood Salvador and some leaders for mobilisation purposes.

“The most important thing is that the party Chairman, Hon. Salvador is intact already. It is just for him to settle the other executive.

“I am in the faction of Chief Bode George, but there is really no faction at large. It is two children that are fighting, but Chief Olabode George has said that Salvador still remains the Chairman of the party in the state,” he said.

Olorunrinu revealed that the issue in the party is that some people are saying that the current executive cannot be the executive at the moment, while others are saying that they are the executive.

The lawmaker reiterated that it is an issue that started with the handing over by Senator Ahmed Makarfi and that it is so unfortunate that the Chairman, Hon. Moshood Salvador is faced with the issue at this material time.

On the implication of this for the party in the forthcoming general elections in 2019, he stated that this was not a crises, parallel congresses or misunderstanding, but that it was a mobilisation strategy.

He added that it is unlike Ahmed Makarfi/Alimodu Sheriff issue, which almost tore the party into pieces before it was resolved by a court of law leading to a national congress that has now produced authentic leaders for the party at the national level.

Olorunrinu also debunked the rumour that Chief Olabode George was contemplating leaving the PDP for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).

“From my last interaction with Chief Bode George, I don’t think that is his position. Like I would always say, politics is all about rumour.

“On my side, the party brought me in and it was the majority of the people that brought me in. Why would I leave something that brought me in. You are there to serve not to change party,” he said.

The politician threw his weight behind Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of the state, who he said has done well for the state with his numerous projects.

According to him,  “saying that Governor Ambode has done bad is to say that the State House of Assembly has done bad. He has not done bad at all and the people of Lagos State can see that.”








Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment