The political atmosphere in Adamawa State, with the attendant bickering over Senator Mohammed Umar Jibrilla’s second term bid, has become clearer, giving way to a smooth sail on the political journey to 2019 governorship election.
Laying credence to this was the visit by a delegation of some politicians from the various wards in the state led by one time Presidential Adviser, Ali Ahmed Gulak to Government House, Yola, on solidarity visit.
Ali Ahmed Gulak, who was one time Speaker in Adamawa State House of Assembly, explained that Sen Mohammed Umar Jibrilla has provided the needed peace and development to the people of the state.
He noted that the purpose of the visit was driven by the aspirations of the governor to record infrastructural development and urged the Governor to, “continue to recover lost grounds of development in the state”.
He stressed that his delegation consist of patriotic political king makers as well as youth mobilisers who believe in the development strides of the present administration in the state.
Sen Mohammed Umar Jibrilla described the delegation as, “political heavy weights” and appreciated their support for his administration in the task of providing development.
“My focus and vision for development cannot be derailed by political opponents,” the governor declared, adding that his administration is an, “all-inclusive government that is geared towards stabilizing the state and improving the lot of the people”.
He noted that his administration has improved internally generated revenue from one N150 million to N800 million in the last two years.
Chief of Staff to the Governor, Alhaji Abdulrahman Abba Jimeta, observed that collaborating with the delegation has eased political tension and permutation by the present administration.
He said he has met with the members of the delegation with the purpose of cementing political ties ahead of twenty nineteen general election in the state.
The delegation later held a closed door meeting with the governor and some members of his cabinet.
 


			
			Post Views: 
			133