Share this on WhatsApp



Yogi is a fluffy Shih-poo. He turned one last month. People thinks Yogi looks a lot like a human.
Yogi has set fire to the internet in recent days after a photograph of him and his pal Daria, an eight-year-old Shih Tzu, was posted on Reddit.
“A friend of a friend posted a pic on Facebook of her dog,” read the caption. “It looks like it has a man’s face.”
Many people think the same.
“Wtf he has the most human eyes I’ve seen on a dog,” said one observer.
A woman called Michelle added further analysis: “But it’s not just his eyes. Look at that little grimace smile that can only come from a middle-aged man whose soul has been given to corporate.”
Before long, the image popped up on Twitter, where people have been comparing Yogi to celebrities. Ed Sheeran, for example.
In our digital age, it’s all too easy to doctor images. So we asked Yogi’s owner, Chantal Desjardins, whether she’d been having some fun on Photoshop.
The 27-year-old, from Massachusetts, told Mirror Online: “It [photo] is not doctored at all. Those are my dogs . I put the photo up in December.
“It really isn’t [edited]. I’m not a photographer at all. I think it’s just his eyes and the way he’s looking at the camera.”
Chantal said she got Yogi back in April, and he’s just like any other puppy. She said she didn’t see his ‘human face’ before.
“He’s super happy,” she said. “He loves to play and cuddle. It’s funny because I really didn’t see it before. I don’t really see him differently.”
While Chantal still sees her Shih-poo in the same way, others can’t help but notice his ‘man face’. Some have labelled it “disturbing”. Others think the dog is “Nicolas Cage dressed as an ewok”.
We heard about Yogi through BuzzFeed reporter , who tweeted a photo of him, and sparked all the celeb comparisons.
Chantal confirmed to us that Yogi is in fact a good boy, and not at all like Nicolas Cage, or any other man, film actor or not.
It’s perhaps just the lighting, angle, and expression that has made the dog look so much like a person.


Mirror,uk


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment