Share this on WhatsApp
The Canadian High Commissioner to Nigeria, Mr Christopher Thornley has reinstated its country’s commitment to continue to work with the Nigerian Navy as part of its bilateral relationship with Nigeria.
Speaking at the Headquarters, Western Naval Command, Apapa, during a port call of two Canadian ships: HMCS Summerside and HMCS Kingston and courtesy visit to the Flag Officer Commanding, Western Naval Command, said it was part of broadening its cooperation with Nigeria.
T “Our bilateral relationship is going on and this is a step in the right direction to see military cooperation as part of multilateral exercise “Operation Obagame” and so that is what the military and the Navy is here for.
“For this visit, it is part of the excellent step in Canada and Nigeria navy relationship and we are glad to see that going on,” said Thornley.
On his part, the Naval Chief of the Canadian Royal Navy, Rear Admiral Ron Lloyd, said they are interested in working with Nigeria especially in the Gulf of Guinea.
“We are looking into supporting our excellency (High Commissioner) with respect to Canadian relationship in Nigeria and we are proud to have two Canadian ships: HMCS Summer Side and HMCS Kingston that would be operating in an exercise.
“We are grateful to Nigerian Navy’s hospitality and appreciative of knowing the FOC, Western Naval Command.
Responding, the Flag Officer Commanding, (FOC), Western Naval Command, Rear Admiral Sylvanus Abbah solicited for better collaboration in the area of training which would engender good understanding of black culture which Nigeria is blessed with.
“We are ready for synergy and perfect relationship and it is going to wax stronger when we train together.
“This is a very important visit because it is the first time in history we are having two Canadian ships visit Nigeria, Admiral Abbah reiterated.
The two ships berthed at the Naval Dockyard in Victoria Island before the visiting naval chief paid a courtesy visit on the FOC in Apapa and the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ette Ibok Ibas at the Navy house respectively.
It was learnt that the two ships of over 55 metres long have about 75 crew members.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment