Share this on WhatsApp
Alhaji Muhammed Adelaja the leader of the All Progressives Congress mandate group has stated that lack of unity in time past has been the bane of development in Ojokoro.




Adelaja made this disclosure while speaking with newsmen at his sixtieth birthday bankrolled by his political children in Ifako Ijaiye federal constituency.



The political father figure of Ojokoro fondly called Baba Ile Ogbo noted that the dearth of appropriate consideration for the constituency in the state arrangement was due to lack of unity.

“Fingers are not equal, in a local government you can see how the leaders cooperated, we are not uniting that is why, Ifako Ijaiye always had upper hand with respect to state appointments but in Ojokoro we only had assembly and may be one cabinet member, it is because we are not cooperating well that informs where we find ourselves today I charge everyone to team up for positive developments.”


 He stated that the secret of his political relevance has been his stance on moral rectitude, as he would never give his support to an aspiring politician for pecuniary gains.

According to Baba Ile ogbo “the Ojokoro aspect of Ifako Ijaiye federal constituency has with this kind gesture done on me,  challenged me to do more than I used to, we are friendly and our loyalty is superb.

“In the midst of your people you should know who to do an obligation to, it is not when you are in need of something  that I would now charge you to bring something.

“I always sacrifice, I am  happy  our MHR is here today, in 1998 he vied for the SLG position he came to seek my support bringing N50,000 which was equivalent to N500,000 today, I refused but still gave him my support and he made it, later in 2016 he also came aspiring for the House of Assembly he gave me some amount I refused.”

He harps on unity in party politicking, charging all members to collectively act to improve the votes for Ambode’s reelection, as people across the senatorial districts are now endorsing him to ensure that he continues his giant strides in the development of Lagos state.

Senator Musiliu Obanikoro who also showed up at Adelaja’s residence has described the apex leader of the All Progressives Congress in Ojokoro Ifako Ijaiye federal constituency, , as a quintessential politician whose pedigree stands tall amongst his peers.


The political bigwig who recently defected to APC,noted that his relationship with the chieftain, whose birthday was been celebrated by his followers holding public offices predates this political dispensation.

Obanikoro said that his appearance at the man fondly called Baba Ile ogbo house has nothing to do with his aspiration for the Lagos West Senatorial District seat at the Senate but borne out of his respect and reverence for Adelaja’s uncommon virtues.

“I didn’t come here because of my aspiration,I have known Baba Ile Ogbo for decades, he is a highly respected politician in the whole of Lagos State.

“This is personal to me when a man of integrity, whose yes is yes and no is no, over the years if he is celebrating his birthday it behooves us to support him. So I am here not for political games, but rather to support a man that I admire and have a lot of respect for.”

Meanwhile top class politicians and public office holder present at the birthday prayer and reception organized in honour of Alh. S. A. Muhammed took their time to eulogize the good virtues of the celebrant.

The legislator representing the Ifako Ijaiye constituency II at the Lagos state House of Assembly, Hon.Rasheed Makinde felicitating with the celebrant highlighted his qualities and also extolled him for his exceptional qualities.

“Baba Ileogbo is a phenomenon in the political landscape of then Agege LGA till the present Ojokoro LCDA. He had establish his political ideology on hegemonic stability theory, that’s why no one could hardly fault Baba Ileogbo’s thought and action, for they are based on justice, equity, and equality.

“As a student of politics and history, I’ve learnt much from Baba’s consistency and perseverance. And do you know one thing, perseverance is not a long race; it is many short races one after the other, without perseverance talent is a barren bed.” Said Makinde.

Hon. Samuel Abati chairman organizing committee, announced the birth of an NGO  named after Baba Ile-Ogbo; Saibu Adelaja Muhammed Charity Organization SAMCO.

Present at the celebration were; the Federal House of Representatives  member, representing Ifako Ijaiye federal constituency,Hon. Akinwunmi Nurudeen, Hon. Saka Fafunmi Lagos State House of Assembly member representing Ifako Ijaiye I, Special Adviser to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode on Civic Engagement  Hon. Benjamin Olabinjo, Ojokoro Council chairman Hon. HID Tijani. Former Special Adviser to Governor Fashola on Parastatal Monitoring Hon. Salvador Adebayo, Hon. Adisa Owolabi, Hon. Adeleke Ipaye, Hon.Dapo Okeyomi  among others.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment