Share this on WhatsApp
The March 3 local government election in Edo witnessed a low turnout of voters, and citizens believe that was caused by the PDP decision to stay away from the election.

The ruling APC and many voters were, however, disappointed by the boycott.

APC’s  National Chairman John Odigie-Oyegun said the opposition has just done itself down with such an action he described as “silly”.

“From our history in this country, that has always been the case; you do not boycott elections. If you do so, you are paying a heavy price for it and we wish it luck. But I pray that they will boycott the others also,” said Oyegun after he cast his vote at Ward 2, Unit 2, Oredo LGA.

According to him, local government elections usually have the problem of voters’ apathy.

“But all that is important is that our candidates get the majority and that they get down to work; that is why we are here,” he said.

The PDP is protesting a number of things in the Edo State Independent Electoral Commission (EDSIEC),

“From the onset, we outlined our grievances regarding the composition of EDSIEC, the unconstitutional amendment to the number of days’notice required to be given to political parties before elections are held and questioned the competence of the EDSIEC as the antecedent of its chairman stuck out like a sore thumb,” the party said in a statement Friday.

“At this point, we expected EDSIEC and/or EDSG to address these issues raised as they were germane, but instead, they preferred to pay lawyers up to N500 million to keep the case in court,” the party said.

The case has been adjourned to April 11 for continuation of hearing.

It then advised its members and supporters not to go out and vote but rather stay at home and rest on the election day.

“Our case is strong and justifiable,” the PDP spokesperson, Mr. Nehikhare, said in the statement.

The party hopes the court decision will be favourable and those APC candidates elected will be dismissed eventually.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment