Share this on WhatsApp



Nick Opara-Ndudu, a former commissioner, has unfolded his intention to contest the 2019 governorship election in Imo State. He promised to provide purposeful leadership and to return Imo State to its past glory. Opara-Ndudu wishes to contest on the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA).
Opara-Ndudu, a former commissioner in three ministries (Budget & Economic Planning; Works & Transport; Internal Resources (IGR) and Pension Matters) in Imo State, also promised to address the challenge of unemployment, insecurity and sundry forms of productive engagements for Imo citizens as veritable instruments for preventing them from engaging in crimes and varied forms of negative behavior.
In a letter addressed to “my dear compatriots”, titled “Imo State Governorship 2019 – Declaration of Intent,” Opara-Ndudu stated that Imo State was in dire straits, being faced with uncommon challenges and, therefore, needed new skills set as well as shift in leadership paradigm to reposition and revive it.
“For Imo people these are trying times and we must collectively resolve to change the status quo. Addressing the challenges require a new skills set and shift in our leadership paradigm. Imo State is in dire need of a governor who has capacity to provide the consequential leadership to face these challenges and surmount them for our collective good. That governor must be mature, experienced, knowledgeable and accomplished in his field and above all, God-fearing and truly compassionate in his dealing with people,” he declared.
 Opara-Ndudu, who enumerated the challenges presently plaguing Imo State, pointed out the state’s high debt profile, which is in excess of N100 billion, high level of poverty exacerbated by the destruction of markets and other traditional sources of productive engagements by the present administration, total decay of the health sector, battered and crippled infrastructure across the state and the scourge of unemployment.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment