Share this on WhatsApp

Declares a new season for Anambra State




Governor Willie Obiano of Anambra State taking the Oath of Office on Saturday, March 17, 2018, for a second tenure, promised more projects and better service delivery for the people. The governor commended the People of Anambra for their majority decision to re-elect him for a second term in office, remarking that their decision on November 18, 2017, which renewed his mandate for another four years made the Saturday event possible.
Obiano declared: “Anambra people, I thank you and stand here as a product of your love for Anambra State, good governance. I am the proof that we have attained a great political maturity.
 “I must recognise all the candidates who ran against me in the last gubernatorial election for putting up a formidable fight. They fought like true sportsmen and women and accepted the decision of the people in good fate.”
Governor Obiano at the second term inauguration at the Alex Ekwueme Square, Awka, enumerated achievements made in the four years of his first term that ended on Friday.
Obiano highlighted: “We grew our GDP by One Trillion Naira in the middle of a recession and increased our Internally Generated Revenue while most tax status remained suspended. We suspended taxes for low-income earners and put more money in the hands of breadwinners.
“We have attracted investments and touched every community with special projects chosen by each community. We have taken back our cities and communities to the brutal hands of armed robbers and kidnappers who once made our beloved state a dread to decent people and a taboo to investors.
“We have turned the table of our enemies and our adversities into advantages. We are Nigeria’s safest state today. We have elevated governance in building roads and bridges to building lives. We are the new agricultural model for Nigeria.”
The governor reassured the people of the state that his second term journey will be better than the first term, assuring that they would enjoy more dividends of democracy.
 “Let me assure you that the democratic garden you watered with your votes on November 18 will blossom with the flowers of progress. It will flourish to our joy and happiness and to the admiration of all Nigerians.
“We can rise together as one that when we stand together as one, we can bend the tide of destiny in our favour.”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment