Share this on WhatsApp

The sacked Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, Paul Boroh has been arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) following the discovery of $9m cash in his residence.

He was picked up by a combined team of operatives from the EFCC and the office of the national security adviser (ONSA). The operatives were said to have discovered a total of $9 million in cash at his Abuja residence.

President Muhammadu Buhari sacked Boroh last week and subsequently ordered a probe of the activities of the amnesty office since 2015 when he was appointed.

National Daily learnt that the former Presidential Aide was driven back to his house at about 3am on Tuesday.
“His home was searched for several hours and about $9 million cash was discovered in several safe boxes in several parts of the house,” a security source was quoted as saying.

“The combined team of EFCC and the National Security Adviser operatives were very thorough with the search. Indeed, at a point, the operatives broke all the locks in the home including his wife’s closet. The recovered cash has been deposited at the office of the NSA.”

Boroh’s sack is said to have been connected to a petition written against him in August 2017 by the Niger Deltans for Accountability and Good Governance (NDAGG).
 
The group had accused Boroh of diverting N70 billion, part of which was meant for the payment of tuition fees and living expenses of Niger Delta students in universities within and outside the country.

Meanwhile, coalition of militants in the Niger Delta, comprising the reformed Niger Delta Avengers and 10 others had tuesday threatened to attack oil installations in the Niger Delta if the sacked coordinator of the amnesty programme, is not reinstated in four weeks.
 
Johnmark Ezonbi, leader of the Reformed Niger Delta Avengers, said the federal government would “hear from them” if Boroh is not reinstated.
 
He said the sacked coordinator of the amnesty programme plays a significant role in prevailing on the militants to end attacks on oil installations.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment