Share this on WhatsApp



Days after he announced the intention of the Federal Government to establish a National Food Security Council, President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the constitution of the Council’s membership.
The 20-man council, to be chaired by the President, will be inaugurated on Monday, according to a release by the federal government.
It will have as members, the Governors of Kebbi (Abubakar Bagudu), Taraba (Darius Dickson Ishaku), Plateau (Simon Lalong), Lagos (Akinwumi Ambode), Ebonyi (Dave Umahi)and Delta State (Ifeanyi Okowa).
Prominent on the council are two blocs Nigerians have come to recognise as Aso Rock cabals ever at cross-purposes to their master’s goals.
According to the release, Chief of Staff Abba Kyari, Interior Minister Abdulrajhamn Dambazzau, and DSS boss Lawan Daura–all members of a power bloc—are on the council.
The Kyari-led bloc is rivalled by the NSA-led cabal, which comprises NSA Babagana Monguno  and EFCC boss Ibrahim Magu, the latter not a council member, though.
Other Members are the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (Boss Mustapha) and six other cabinet ministers. The ministers to be represented are for Agriculture and Rural Development (Audu Ogbeh); Finance (Kemi Adeosun) ; Industry, Trade and Investment (Okechukwu Enelamah); Water Resources (Suleiman Kazaure); Environment (Ibrahim Jibrin); and Budget and National Planning (Udo Udoma).
The National Food Security Council will also have as Members, the Chief of Defence Staff (General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin); the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (Godwin Emefiele); the Directors-General of the National Intelligence Agency (Ahmed Abubakar) as well as the Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Immigration Service (Mohammed Babandede).
The broad objectives of the Council will include, developing sustainable solutions to the farmers–herdsmen clashes; Climate Change and Desertification and their impact on farmland; grazing areas and lakes, rivers and other water bodies; oil spillage and its impact on Niger Delta Fishing Communities; piracy and banditry; agricultural research institutions and extension services and the problem of smuggling.
The UN has predicted that over three million Nigerians will be plunged into food crisis if urgent measures are not put in place,
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment