Share this on WhatsApp

By Odunewu Segun
 
Barely three years after the present administration of President Muahammadu Buhari increased the pump price of petrol from N86.50 to N145, there are indications that it may soon have to review it upward again to solve the lingering fuel scarcity.

Although the government has not openly declared its intention, however, on several occasions, top officials in the oil ministry have given the hints, saying the current pump price is not sustainable again.

The pump price of petrol may not come down in the nearest future as expected, as according to Ibe Kachikwu, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, that would only happen when Nigeria fixed existing refineries and encouraged private investors to build new ones.

He spoke at the recent International Petroleum Summit in Abuja, where he said unless current prices of the products were reviewed to make them more profitable, the problems in the sector would endure.

“Ultimately, the greater challenge that this country would have and still have is that of pricing. Everybody wants power, available gas and freely delivered fuel with no queues, but people are not willing to make the sacrifices that are essential for these things to happen,” he added.

Reacting to the current arrangement of the NNPC, energy expert, Tayo Ilesanmi said that inasmuch as the NNPC’s spending actually helped to some extent resolve fuel scarcity in the country, expending such huge amount of money on import is not sustainable to the nation’s economy and its foreign reserves.

“I think the Federal Government would do the nation good by bringing back to life the refineries in the country as well as creating an enabling environment for the private sector to invest in refineries. The idea of modular refineries is a very laudable one and government should give more bites to the project to enable it come to fruition,” Ilesanmi said.

Anefi Mohammed, a Lagos based businessman and Vice Chairman, International Freight Forwarders Association (IFFA), Ports and Terminal Multipurpose Services Limited (PTML) chapter, Tincan Island Apapa, in a chat blamed the government for the hardship Nigerians are facing as a result of persistent fuel crises.

He said that three years ago, “the government made us believe that in a space of one year, we will not have anything to do with fuel scarcity in Nigeria. They made us believe and accept the fuel pump price they were giving to us, which we accepted at N145 per litre. 

They have sold fuel for N145 per litre for about three years now and we are back to the same old story of fuel scarcity.”

Recall that the NNPC last week claimed it has imported 9.8 million metric tons of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) worth $5.8 billion to combat the fuel crisis that resurfaced since late last year.

Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Maikanti Baru on Sunday said the corporation is subsidising the supply of petrol to the tune of N774 million every day, given the landing cost of the imported fuel and the regulated pump price in the domestic market.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment