Share this on WhatsApp
The senator representing Nasarawa West Senatorial District,
Sen. Abdullahi Adamu has again lashed out at the Senate for taking decisions that are at cross-purposes to the goals of President Muhammadu Buhari.
He regrets that the APC lawmakers who hold the majority in both houses are at the forefront of this rebellion.
Adamu’s represents Nasarawa West, and he is among the 10 lawmakers who walked out on the Senate when it passed the Electoral Act Amendment Bill reshuffling elections.
 “I believe we need to retrace our steps and reconsider our stand as legislators on matters of public interest. Our party, the APC, has the majority in both chambers of the National Assembly, yet we hold the executive prisoner of politics that are unhealthy for the polity,” he said on Tuesday in statement.
“ It is such a terrible irony that we sabotage our own government by refusing to do our part in support of the executive.”
According to his illustration of the war of egos, appointments requiring Senate approval are held up, and the consequence is that the public has nicknamed the President and his administration ‘go-slow.’
He said with the ruling party’s control of the executive and the National Assembly, there is no reason why the government cannot acquit itself and fulfil the yearnings of the people.
“Perhaps, while we are consumed with sabotaging the administration and stabbing one another in the back, we forget that in less than a year from now, we shall be required to seek the people’s re-validation of our mandate to sit in these hallowed chambers. What shall we tell them?”
Adamu restated his position in the Electoral Amendment bill for which he claimed he has been criminalised.
 “It has never been part of the Electoral Act and there is no need to deny the commission the right to do its duty as it deems fit. Happily, I am not alone in taking this stand. Some of my colleagues are opposed to it too,” he said.
The Senate has not reacted officially to this, mainly because Adamu has the right to express himself.
The upper house recently re-considered its position on confirmation of Buhari’s nominees to the CBN.
The lawmakers had said if the president refused to sack EFCC chairman Ibrahim Magu, it would not screen the CBN nominees.
The decision was softened Tuesday when a senator pointed out how the stalemate has been ruining Nigeria’s economy.

Currently, the National Assembly has been split in two: pro-Saraki and pro-Buhari.

Those aligning with Senate President Bukola Saraki seems the majority.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment