Share this on WhatsApp



A prominent northern leader, Dr. Junaid Mohammed, has admonished that there would be trouble if the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) rigs the 2019 Presidential election in favour of incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari. The elder statesman had also cautioned that Nigerians will no longer tolerate the administration’s misrule.
The northern leader was of the view that it would be against the run of play if President Buhari is re-elected in 2019.
“It is against national interest, common sense, and rationality for Buhari to stand for election and get the kind of crowd that he got in Kano. Tell me one good thing Buhari has done for this country,” Junaid Mohammed was cited to have said.
He was full of pessimism about systemic disorganization of the country if the incumbent president is re-elected for another four years. According to Junaid Mohammed, “There are a number of scenarios. One scenario is possibly that he may not contest the election. If he’s selected as the anointed presidential candidate of his party and he didn’t win the election, it would be rigged in his favour – and if that happens, I want to assure you that from the day they announce the election results, until the end of the four years, there would be no peace in this country. If the APC government went ahead to rig 2019 elections, there would be trouble. I cannot tell you the nature of the trouble.”
Mohammed stated that with growing insecurity, grinding poverty, and corruption in high places, the president does not deserve a second term.
“Buhari cannot win 2019 election on the basis of performance. Buhari has ruined the national economy; he has messed up the national security; he has lied through his teeth about integrity by promoting and supporting people who have no gravitas –those who’re related to him that have become billionaires overnight. On what basis did they become overnight billionaires? Simple: on the basis that they are related to him. Buhari cannot win a free and fair election in 2019. I challenge Buhari to tell me one thing he has done for this country. If he gets re-elected, it might be because of tribal sentiments or geopolitical sentiments,” he pointed out.
Mohammed was said to have remarked that Buhari is a glorified President under the control of a group of people and whose anti-corruption war is designed to make his relatives and friends rich.
“I will describe him as thoroughly incompetent. He has (always) been clueless. He is out of touch with reality. This President cannot do anything without the power of the group that has a stranglehold on him. He doesn’t have any strength intellectually. The people he surrounds himself with are only looking after themselves. We’re in very serious trouble because of a man who is timid – a glorified President who cannot explain himself well,” Mohammed was cited to have declared.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment