Share this on WhatsApp

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) says Nigeria needed more ambitious tax policy measures to strengthen the economy.

According to the global lender, Nigeria should do things such as reforming the value-added tax, increasing excise, and rationalising tax incentives.

In Article IV, an annual appraisal of a country’s economy released on Wednesday, the IMF commended CBN’s tightening bias in 2017, which it said should continue until inflation is within the single digit target range.

“They recommended continued strengthening of the monetary policy framework and its transparency, with a number of directors urging consideration of a higher monetary policy rate, asymmetric application of reserve requirements, and no direct central bank financing of the economy.

“A few directors urged confirmation of the appointments of the central bank’s board of directors and members of the monetary policy committee. They  commended the recent foreign exchange measures and recent efforts to strengthen external buffers to mitigate risks from capital flow reversals. They welcomed the authorities’ commitment to unify the exchange rate and urged additional actions to remove remaining restrictions and multiple exchange rate practices.”

The Bretton Wood institution advised the CBN to carry out an asset quality review of the banking sector to determine if banks have made adequate provisions for non-performing loans (NPLs).

The level of NPLs in the banking sector is currently at 14 percent, higher than the five percent recommended by the CBN.

IMF commended the progress in implementing the economic recovery and growth plan, including the start of a convergence in foreign exchange windows, tight monetary policy, improvements in tax administration, and significant strides in improving the business environment.

Nigeria’s economy, which slipped into its worst recession in 25 years, exited with a 0.83 GDP growth in 2017.
The monetary policy committee of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has kept MPR, which determines the interest rate, at 14 percent since 2016 to help the economy combat inflation.

The committee has been unable to meet in 2018 because of the senate’s refusal to confirm appointees for the committee, which cannot form a quorum at present.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment