Share this on WhatsApp
A blind mystic who predicted Russia would take over the world to “Vladimir’s glory” had predicted two huge historical events for 2018.

Conspiracy theorists claim Baba Vanga correctly foresaw the 9/11 terror attacks, Brexit, the rise of ISIS and the Boxing Day tsunami long before they happened.

The Bulgarian – who died in 1996 aged 85 – left predictions going all the way to the 51st Century – when she said the world would end.

It has emerged the ‘Nostradamus from the Balkans’ had once predicted Russia would rise to global dominance and its leader – currently Vladimir Putin – would be “lord of the world”, the Daily Post reports.

For 2018, she predicted two events that would change the world forever, and she also revealed chilling premonitions for the centuries ahead including the end of the world.

One of her predictions suggests Russia will have to wait if it wants to become the world’s master.

Baba Vanga said China will become the world’s next “super power”, taking over from the US.

And she predicted “a new form of energy” will be discovered on the planet Venus.

The Parker Solar Probe, named after the solar astrophysicist Eugene Parker, is scheduled to launch in July 2018.

The NASA robotic spacecraft is designed to probe the outer corona of the Sun.

While the craft will not actual land on Venus, it will use the planet’s gravitational force to achieve multiple passes of the Sun.

The mission aims to determine the structure and dynamics of the magnetic fields at the sources of solar wind, trace the flow of energy that heats the plasma surrounding the Sun and explore dusty plasma near the star and its influence on solar wind and energetic particle formation.

It’s scheduled launch date was originally in 2015, but this was pushed back.
Baba Vanga predicted the mission will discover a new form of energy, according to conspiracy theorists.

She is revered in Russia for her 85 per cent success rate when it comes to telling the future – with millions convinced that she possessed paranormal abilities.

Her second prediction for 2018- that China would overtake the US as a superpower – is also plausible.

Two years ago research group The Conference Board estimated that by 2018, China’s contribution to global GDP will surpass that of the US.

In 2015 the US contributed 16.7 per cent of the world’s economy but this is expected to fall to 14.9 per cent in 2025, according to Forbes.

China’s economy on the other hand has expanded significantly in recent years. In 1970 the country was responsible for just 4.1 per cent of the total world’s economy. But this rose to 15.6 per cent in 2015 and China continues to grow.

Meanwhile, amid a diplomatic row between Theresa May and Putin, it has emerged the ‘Nostradamus from the Balkans’ had once predicted Russia would dominate the world
In 1979, during a meeting with writer Valentin Sidorov, Baba Vanga said: “All will thaw, as if ice, only one remain untouched – Vladimir’s glory, glory of Russia.

“Too much it is brought in a victim. Nobody can stop Russia.

“All will be removed by her from the way and not only will be kept, but also becomes the lord of the world.”

Putin was elected to his fourth term as president of Russia during Sunday’s elections amid reports of voter fraud.

The future predictions of the blind mystic

Ice caps melt
From 2033 to 2045 the polar ice caps will melt, causing ocean levels to rise. Meanwhile, Muslims rule Europe and the world economy is thriving.

Cloning cures most diseases
The rise of cloning allows doctors to cure any disease as the body is simply and easily replaced.
The US will launch an attack on Muslim Rome using a climate-based ‘instant freezing’ weapon.

Red and green
Between 2072 and 2086 a classless, Communist society will thrive hand in hand with newly-restored nature

Mars attacks!
A LOT happens from 2170 to 2256, including a Mars colony becoming a nuclear power and demanding independence from the earth, the establishment of an underwater city and the discovery of something “terrible” during the search for alien life

Time travel
Some time between 2262 and 2304 we’ll crack time travel. Meanwhile French guerrillas fight the Muslim authorities in France.
The “secrets of the moon” will be unveiled.

The end of the earth
From 2341 a series of natural and man-made disasters render our home planet uninhabitable. Humanity escapes to another solar system, but resources are scarce and wars are waged as a result.

Going backwards – 3815 to 3878
Civilization has been destroyed and people live like beasts until a new religion rises to lead us out of the darkness.

Immortal alien hybrids
From 4302 to 4674 the concepts of evil and hatred have been eliminated, humans are immortal and have assimilated with aliens.
The 340 billion people scattered throughout the universe can talk to God.

The end of all things
In 5079 the universe will end.
Did Baba Vanga predict these events?

The Kursk nuclear submarine disaster
In 1980 the blind prophetess predicted that in August of 1999 “Kursk will be covered with water and the whole world will weep over it”.
Kursk was a Russian sub that sank in the Barents Sea on August 12, 2000, killing all aboard.

9/11
In 1989 Baba Vanga said: “Horror, horror! The American brethren will fall after being attacked by the steel birds. The wolves will be howling in a bush, and innocent blood will be gushing.”
On September 11, 2001, planes hijacked by Islamic extremists hit the World Trade Center in New York, killing thousands of people.

World War III
Baba warned that assassination attempts on four heads of states in 2010 would become one of the causes for the start of WWIII.

Some dismissed this prediction as incorrect as the heads of state were believed to potentially refer to Obama, Sarkozsky, Netanyahu, Vladimir Putin and Gordon Brown.

However, observers note that Hamas leader Mahmúd al-Mabhouh was assassinated in Dubai on January 19, 2010 and Polish leader Lech Kaczynski was found dead in suspicious circumstances on April 10, 2010.

Others point out that Libya’s Colonel Muammar Gaddafi was killed on October 20, 2011 and Saddam Hussein died a few years earlier on December 30, 2006.

All were linked to the Arab Spring which Baba said would set events in motion which would bring about the next global conflict.

Syria
Before she died, the clairvoyant made a chilling prophecy about the rise of nuclear weapons.

Baba reportedly prophesised a 2016 invasion of Europe by Muslim extremists, a conflict she predicted would begin with the Arab Spring in 2010.

She also allegedly forewarned of a showdown in Syria where “Muslims would use chemical warfare against Europeans”.

The prediction is eerily similar to the Sarin gas attack thought to have been conducted on the orders of Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad.

Brexit
Theorists believe she foretold Brexit – even going so far as to say that Europe as we know it will “cease to exist” by the end of 2016.

North Korea and Donald Trump
Baba also appeared to predict that the 45th President of the United States – Donald Trump – would be faced with a crisis which would “bring the country down”.

Her chilling prediction states: “Everyone will put their hopes in him to end it, but the opposite will happen; he will bring the country down and conflicts between north and south states will escalate.”

Some speculate the references to “north and south” could mean North and South Korea.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment