Share this on WhatsApp





A pressure group in Kogi State, Save Kogi Initiative, has charged the Nigeria Police to ensure Senator Dino Melaye faces justice to give hope to the common man that the rich is not above the law.

The group stated this in Lokoja after an extraordinary meeting through its Director of Communications, Comrade Ignatius Adeoye.

According to Adeoye, the people of Kogi State are anxiously waiting for the prosecution of Senator Dino Melaye to explain what he knows about arms proliferation in the state.

“The Save Kogi Initiative is not like the Save Kogi Group which one of its members has now been indicted for arming young people to foment trouble and wage violence on our defenseless people. The Group should have been called ‘Kill Kogi Gang’. Issues of security should not be politicized. Whoever promotes insecurity must be brought to book. Only God knows how many people those boys would have killed.

“The conflicting reports on the whereabouts of the embattled Senator is further proof that he has questions to answer on the recent mind-boggling revelations. Why is he running if his conscience was clear?

“As a group, we commend the Nigeria Police and other security agents for working hard to keep Kogi safe. We however urge the Police to ensure Dino is arrested in the next few days to come and answer charges against him.

“The Dino we used to see on the floor of the Senate is not the Dino we are hearing about now. We never thought he could run away and attempt to evade arrest. He should be charged to court immediately.

“We recall how he always play-act on the floor of the Senate whenever issues of security in his home state was discussed. Now we know the real enemies of our dear State. We urge highly placed people like him who have been involved in arms-running to desist from doing so and embrace a safe Nigeria.

“We also deliberated on the recent attacks in Omala and Dekina. The Governor did very well by promptly mobilizing for effective security of the area and for personally visiting the places affected. This is the kind of leadership we crave in this state, especially when similar attacks under the immediate past administration didn’t attract government attention.

“We call on security agents to ensure the perpetrators of the heinous acts are brought to book to serve as deterrent to others.”

The SKI calls on the Federal Government to expedite action on the completion of the Ajaokuta Steel Company in order to boost the economy of the state as well as create job opportunities for the teeming populace.









Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment