Share this on WhatsApp



By Esther Egbe
The newly appointed Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries Football Club director, Barrister Davidson Adejuwon, has joined hundreds of Nigerians to celebrate Lagos State Football Association chairman, Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi, who has just been re-elected as the 1st vice-president of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) on Thursday in the city of Katsina.
The big event tagged ‘NFF 2018 Elective Congress’ was witnessed by top government officials and football administrators from world football governing body, FIFA, CAF and every part of Nigeria among which was Adejuwon, who was in Katsina as an observers and also to support Akinwunmi.
“For us it’s a welcome development and we are also delighted to have our own Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi returned and elected,” Davidson told National Daily .
“The success is a sweet one to us at MFM FC bearing in mind that we are situated in Lagos State. Even though the club is meant for all the youths in Nigeria and Africa all over, but there is a place call home and Lagos State still remain the home.
“Coming here (Katsina) to witness the victory of our state FA chairman, is something that gladdens our heart and we are certainly wishing a much more prosperous and productive football season.
“It’s a laudable event as we are witnessing history because this will be the first time that we are going to have a tenure that will be having two terms victory of election as it is.
“It’s transparent and I say a big congratulations to Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi and to Amaju Pinnick for this history that they have created. We can just wish them that they continue the good work they have been doing to improve on them and make a football environment a better place for our youths to also prosper as they have promised, we wish them all the best,” the MFM FC supremo disclosed in an interview with his team’s media department shortly after elective process.
Incumbent NFF president, Pinnick became the first man since 1957 when Father Dennis Slattery (of blessed memory) to be elected back-to-back to one of the powerful seats in world football with 34 votes out of 44. Akinwunmi also retained his position with an emphatic victory after bagging 41 votes out of 44.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment