Share this on WhatsApp



 
President Muhammadu Buhari led top members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to Osogbo, capital of Osun state, for the rally of the ruling party ahead of Saturday’s governorship election.
Isiaka Oyetola, a former chief of staff to Aregbesola, is the APC candidate in the election.
President Muhammadu Buhari urged voters in Osun State to vote for the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the upcoming September 22 governorship election to ensure continuity of progress in the state.
While speaking at the rally in Osogbo, the state capital, on Tuesday, September 18, 2018, he said the party has implemented quality leadership in the state and deserves to be allowed to continue its good work in the state.
He told voters to continue to keep corrupt leaders out of political positions to ensure the country’s progress under the APC.
He said, “Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, our party has no tolerance for corruption. We will continue to ensure inclusiveness and economic diversification.
“Nigerians kept the corrupt and selfish leaders out of Federal Government in 2015, and by the grace of God, supporters will continue to keep them out of leadership positions until we permanently confine their corrupt government style into the history books.
“Nigeria must be free of corrupt and selfish leaders. The children of all Nigerians will get quality infrastructure, education, health care and job opportunities.
“This is why you must all come out and vote for the APC on the 22nd of September, 2018. Osun must remain APC. Osun must continue on the path of progress. Osun must not allow the dark days to return.”
Abdullahi Ganduje, governor of Kano; Akinwunmi Ambode, governor of Lagos; Nasir el-Rufai, governor of Kaduna, Simon Lalong, governor of Plateau, attended the rally.
Other governors are governors are Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo), Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), Abubakar Bagudu (Kebbi), and Godwin Obaseki (Edo).
El-Rufai, who spoke on behalf of the governors, said many of them will stay back in Osun until the election is over.
The September 22 election is expected to be closely contested between Oyetola, Senator Ademola Adeleke of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and Senator Iyiola Omisore of the Social Democratic Party (SDP).
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment