Share this on WhatsApp



 
First City Monument Bank (FCMB) has reiterated its commitment to champion and execute initiatives that would boost the growth and performance of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) through increased lending, capacity building, advisory and value-added offerings that would fast-track overall national development.
The Bank gave the assurance during the third in its series of free capacity building programmes, tagged ‘’Business Enterprises and Sustainability Training (BEST)’’ organised for existing and start-up SMEs in Abuja on September 1, 2018. This followed the success of the first and second editions of the training in Lagos.
The initiative, led by FCMB Training Academy, the Bank’s Business Banking Group and seasoned facilitators, focused on business and skills development, marketing, finance and accounting for SMEs. It covered various topical areas such as identifying business opportunities, improving productivity, raising capital, optimising sales, cost and revenue management among others.
Speaking on the BEST initiative, the Executive Director, Business Development of FCMB, Mrs. Bukola Smith, said the Bank recognises the increasing role and impact of SMEs on the lives of people and the society.
“We believe that this comprehensive training programme will go a long way to impact positively on the operators of SMEs and propel them to further develop themselves. This will also help them take their respective businesses to the next level and compete favourably within and outside the Nigerian market. We therefore, urge participants to take advantage of the unique opportunities provided by FCMB’’.
Also commenting, the Head, Training Academy of FCMB, Mr. Sola Oyegbade, stated that, “BEST initiative is a proof of our commitment to the growth and sustainability of the SMEs. We focus on helping and getting these businesses sustained beyond just focusing on what value they add to our own Business on the immediate, and then overlook the critical need to develop the nation’s growing economy. A number of our SME partners who have participated in earlier versions of this training, are much better off today.’’
A beneficiary, who is also the Chief Executive of Tatafo Naija Blog, Mr. Belema Hart, said, “Brands in Nigeria are beginning to understand value creation, not just offering services. I was surprised to get an email from my Bank, FCMB, inviting me to this business empowerment and sustainability training, free of any charge. This was a pleasant surprise. The training was very impactful’’.
According to another beneficiary and the Managing Director of Stylemark Mall Enterprises, Mrs. Blessing Asimegbe, “it is really commendable to see how FCMB supports SMEs and goes all out to promote the growth of businesses. The entire aspect of the training was highly impactful. The facilitators were vast and really took time to break down all the areas they spoke on. The beautiful part of it was that certificates were issued to all participants for an event that was free. That is highly commendable and kudos to FCMB for being a partner in progress’’.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment