Share this on WhatsApp
Team Delta has defended its tittle of the National Youth Games (NYG) as the state emerged the overall winners of the 4th edition of the annual multi-sports event which ended on Sunday, at the University of Ilorin, Kwara State,National Daily gathered.

Team Delta won the last edition with 22 gold, 16 silver and 23 bronze medals, totalling 61 medals, and the state increased the tally in this edition with 27 gold, 24 silver and 16 bronze medals to make it 67 medals this time.

Lagos state which disappeared after the first edition in Abuja reappeared in the fourth edition and came second with 23 gold, 15 silver and 22 bronze, totalling 60 medals. While Teams Bayelsa and Ogun came Third as both States finished with same medals, 11 gold, seven silver and 16 bronze each, totalling 34 medals.

Akwa Ibom state was fourth with 9 gold, 15 silver and 22 bronze, totalling 46 medals, and Abia state came fifth with 7 gold, 8 silver and 8 bronze, totalling 23 medals. The host state, Kwara was in eighth position with 5 gold, 9 silver and 4 bronze, totalling 18 medals.

Speaking during the closing ceremony, the Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Youths and Sports Development, Mr. Olusade Adesola said the ministry was achieving the objective of the National Youth Games as it had continued to have a pool of athletes that are representing the country in international sports competition.

He said some of the products of the NYG were among the athletes that represented Nigeria at the last Africa Youth Games, at Algeria, about two months ago.

Mr. Adesola who represented the Minister of Youths and Sports Development, Barr. Solomon Dalung disclosed that various sports federations in the country were using the NYG to gauge the effectiveness of their developmental programmes, urging state ministries of sports to also use the NYG as part of their sports development programme.

He said the current edition of the annual event was unique because the number of sporz were increased and the age of the participating athletes had been pegged at 15 which was in line with international standard.

The Permanent Secretary said to achieve the eradication of age cheat in the NYG the ministry secured the services of the officials of Youths Sports Federation of Nigeria (YSFON) who assisted greatly in making the screening process effective.

He revealed that 2973 athletes registered with the ministry for the championship, 2712 athletes were presented for the screening exercise, 382 athletes representing 14 percent of the total athletes were disqualified during screening, while 2330 participated and competed favourably in the 4th edition of the NYG.

The Permanent Secretary said the ministry will evolved a strategy to reduce age cheat in the NYG through technological means, saying the screening process should be beyond facial looks.

While appreciting the spirit of sportsmanship exhibited by the athletes and the management of the University of Ilorin for providing enabling environment, he also urged the young athletes to remained committed to their training, saying the future was bright for them.

Earlier, the Deputy Vice Chancellor of University of Ilorin, Prof. Sylvia Malomo said the NYG was to further unite us to be one people without division, assuring that the University was ready to receive the participants for the next edition.

While congratulating the winners of the championship, she also appreciated the spirit of sportsmanship exhibited by all the states that participated in the championship.

Kwara State Director of Sports, Alh. Alaba Tunde Kazim who represented the State Governor Alh. Abdulfatai Ahmed at the closing ceremony promised that the state will continue to provide enabling environment for youths to excell in sports.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment