Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Social Democratic Party (SDP) Candidate in last Saturday’s Governorship Election in Osun State, Chief Iyiola Omisore, has agreed to work with the APC in tomorrow’s rerun.
The deal was sealed after a meeting between Chief Omisore and an APC team led by Chairman Adams Oshiomhole in Osogbo early Wednesday.
The meeting comes a day after Senate President Bukola Saraki met with Omisore.
Saraki is also seeking the support of Omisore for the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the rerun.
In the APC entourage were Governors Abiola Ajimobi, Abdullahi Ganduje, Ibikunle Amosun of Oyo, Kano and Ogun states respectively.
Also in the team was Governor-elect Dr. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State and Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed.
Recall that Senator Iyiola Omisore of the SDP has been receiving high profile guests from the PDP and APC as Osun State returns to the ballot on Thursday, September 27, to elect a new governor.
Omisore hails from Ile-Ife.
Ife North and South are two of the local governments where a rerun of the vote will be conducted on Thursday to decide the winner of the governorship election. Others are Orolu and Osogbo.
Essentially, 3,498 votes were voided in seven polling units in Orolu, Ife North, Ife South and Osogbo.
The Osun governorship election was declared inconclusive because the number of cancelled votes was more than the margin of victory (353) between the PDP and APC.
The rerun will hold in 3 polling units in Orolu, 2 in Ife South, 1 in Ife North and 1 in Osogbo.
The rerun election will be between Gboyega Oyetola of the APC (who polled 254,345 votes) and Ademola Adeleke of the PDP (who polled 254,698).
Omisore’s SDP scored a vote total of 128,049, to come third behind APC and PDP.
Omisore who is loved in Ife and who polled a chunk of his votes in Ife, is understandably being courted by APC and PDP chieftains.
On Monday, September 24, Senate President Bukola Saraki flew to Ile-Ife for a meeting with Omisore.
However, after the meeting with Saraki, Omisore hinted that he was open to working with any one of the PDP or APC as long as his demands are met.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment