Share this on WhatsApp



 
The rift between National leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his political son, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos state may have deepened following the purported endorsement of Jide Sanwoolu as his candidate for the 2019 governorship election in the state.
Sanwonolu, who served as a commissioner under Babatunde Fashola, Ambode’s predecessor, is currently the Managing Director of Lagos State Property Development Corporation (LSPDC).
National Daily gathered that Sanwoolu is being backed by Mandate Movement, a group fiercely loyal to Tinubu.
At a meeting held after Sanwoolu picked up his nomination form, James Odunmbaku, an ally of Tinubu known as “Baba Eto” in the political circle, said “Sanwololu is the incoming governor of Lagos.”
It was also reliably gathered that Conference 57, which comprises all the 57 Council Chairmen in Lagos State has also endorsed Sanwoolu.
Over 50 council chairmen loyal to Bola Tinubu, his estranged godfather, have met and pledged their support to Jide Sanwoolu, who is believed to be Tinubu’s preferred choice, according to APC insiders.
The council chairmen are the most influential grassroots mobilisers under the direct primary system adopted by APC to pick governorship candidates.
Most members of the Lagos house of assembly are also loyal to Tinubu.
There have been reports of a rift between Tinubu and Ambode. When the APC leader canvassed for direct primary in Lagos, rumors were rife that Ambode was one of the targets but both men have carried on as if all is well.
Hamzat, a former commissioner in the state, is also eyeing Ambode’s seat, having failed to secure the party’s ticket in 2015.
Heavyweights of the ruling party had rallied round Ambode who defeated Hamzat and Olasupo Sasore, the choice of Fashola, to clinch the ticket of APC in 2015.
The latest development is coming at a time when an APC faction led by Fouad Oki is plotting to stop the primaries for the 2019 elections which are to commence across the country on Wednesday.
Recall that Ambode had on Monday, alongside some members of his cabinet, stormed the headquarters of the APC in Abuja to get expression of interest and nomination forms for his 2019 bid.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment