Sergi Roberto, Barcelona side, appeared before the media to discuss the main current issues of the Spanish National Team. What does Luis Enrique mean to you ?: “It was very important, it made me debut at Barça B, it gave me continuity in the first team and now I’m going to be back in the national team.
World Cup: “I wanted to go to the World Cup, I thought I had a good season to be, I was very excited, but the coach’s decision was to call other players, I respected it.” I was very happy to see myself again in the squad ”
Training: “He is giving us a lot of information, we are adapting to everything new, I already had him at Barça, we are working a lot of offensive and defensive aspects and studying Saturday’s rival, we are all very involved, the team is eager to play .
Luis Enrique: He is the right coach to be in the national team, his game criteria are adapted to the style of the other coaches. In the dressing room he is a great coach.
Less international Barcelona in all history: We are only Sergio Busquets and I, is the decision of the coach. I’m happy to be here, it’s strange that we’re only two, but it’s the situation that has occurred. ”
Girona-Barça in the United States: “The United States party was already talked about, we had a meeting of the captains in the AFE, we do not yet know what is going to be done”.
Norms of Luis Enrique: “They are things of the clothes, we are training in the morning and there are other nomas of schedule. I believe that it is going to go well for the equipment”.
Absences from Pique, Silva and Iniesta: “Some of these players have decided to withdraw from the national team or are playing in Japan as Iniesta, they have been very important for the national team and we hope they will do very well in their clubs.”
Jordi Alba: “It is a decision of the coach, in this case he has not been called, he is a very important player and he is calm, he will continue working in his club, if he gets the call he will be happy”.

			
			Post Views: 
			96