Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Governor’s Advisory Council, GAC, of the Lagos All Progressives Congress, APC, on Saturday, endorsed Babajide Sanwo-Olu for the party’s governorship ticket for the 2019 election in the state.
Senator Anthony Adefuye, after a meeting of the Council on Saturday, at the APC State Secretariat at the ACME Road, Ogba, Ikeja, revealed that the GAC, the highest decision-making body of the State APC, arrived at the endorsement after a meeting which lasted for several hours.
The meeting was said to be chaired by APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and was attended by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Right Honourable Mudashiru Obasa, and several other notable party stakeholders in lagos.
Adefuye explained that the decision to back Sanwo-Olu, a former Commissioner for Training and Establishment, against incumbent Governor Akinwunmi Ambode was in the interest of the state and the party.
Adefuye also announced that the governorship primary had been postponed from Sunday to Monday but gave no reason for the shift.
He also announced that another aspirant, a former Commissioner for Works, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, had withdrawn from the race and endorsed Sanwo-Olu.
Adefuye declared: “There was a GAC meeting held this morning which was attended by the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker, House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, and others.
“This meeting was chaired by our national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. This is a meeting that we started at 10am. and we couldn’t finish early.
“After the meeting, I have been mandated by the GAC to announce this to you.
“The gubernatorial primary earlier scheduled for tomorrow, September 30th, has been shifted to Monday, October 1.
“Also, the GAC was informed by Dr Obafemi Hamzat of his decision to graciously step down and endorse Jide Sanwoolu.
“GAC has endorsed Babajide Sanwoolu as its preferred candidate ahead of the primary.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment