Share this on WhatsApp

May go for President




The programmed exodus from the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, by the protestant Reformed All Progressives Congress, RAPC, to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, is getting to the concluding point which may be rounded up by the defection of the team led by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Right Honourable Yakubu Dogara. The Speaker was gathered to have concluded arrangements to dump the ruling APC for the PDP to align with his colleagues in the RAPC faction.
A reliable source revealed to National Daily that in the next few days, the ruling APC could be thrown into a shock of losing prominent members of the party to the opposition PDP or any other political party.
The source disclosed that the potential defectors have been guaranteed automatic ticket in the PDP except the presidential ticket. Top in the defection group are members of the House of Representatives, including lawmakers in some other states where governors are also expected to join the exodus.
It was revealed that the next defection is not far from the revelation of the PDP leadership in Abuja last week.
Some groups were gathered to be lobbying that Speaker Dogara joins the presidential race. The groups acknowledged that they have been consulting some elder statesmen across the country to support the Speaker for President. The groups further disclosed that they will extend their lobby to the Living Faith Winners Chapel, superintended by Bishop David Oyedepo, to pull the millions of members to support and vote the Speaker in the presidential election. Dogara was identified a member of the Living Faith ministry.
Meanwhile, the remaining RAPC group still in the APC are expected to dump the party before the commencement of the primary elections of the tow leading political parties, APC and PDP, which begin in the fourth week of September.
APC leaders were gathered to have intensified efforts to forestall the defections, particularly, since the PDP make the arrangement public last week.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment