Share this on WhatsApp










Appeases Tinubu, Fashola, others




After the wide endorsements of Governor Akinwumi Ambode for second term by several stakeholders in Lagos State which generated the belief that the deal has been sealed for Ambode’s re-election in 2019, the governor is currently facing severe threat to his re-election until the issues are taken care of.
National Daily gathered that dull relationship between Ambode and former Governor Babatunde Fashola since 2015 is playing out now that the incumbent governor is seeking the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State for a second term.
The governor is widely believed to have introduced reforms that sought to jettison Fashola’s legacy or abandon the uncompleted projects by his predecessor, in addition to dismantling the former governor’s structure in the state.
Fashola, now Minister of power, Works and Housing, has not been saying anything over all the political activities and his followers have not been comfortable with the incumbent governor’s unfriendliness. APC stakeholders believe that Fashola is fast becoming the next political leader in Lagos State. “The silence is putting too much fear in Tinubu and Ambode. They are strongly begging Fashola now.  The minister will shake Ambode for his reform,” declared one of the aggrieved APC stakeholders in Lagos. .
It was gathered that many APC members are waiting for Femi Otedola, the oil magnet and son of a former Lagos State Governor, Michael Otedola, to contest the APC primary election with Amobde. They expect Otedola to replace Ambode for 2019 governorship poll.   “If he contests APC primary election, Ambode is in trouble. People expect he won’t contest and we hear he said he is going to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), we wish him well” our party source declared.
The source maintained that the Fashola camp is shaking Ambode now.
It was further revealed that Ambode is now settling with many people and groups, including CDAs, mending broken fences in Lagos.”Lagosians not happy with Ambode because of his neglect and nepotism; he developed Epe where he comes from more than other parts of Lagos.  He is building his own structure for the 2019 elections in Lagos, which is challenging the Tinubu dynasty. Fashola used Tinubu’s structure for his second term campaign,” our APC source declared. .
It was disclosed that since Tinubu controls and operates mainly from Lagos now and has lost control of other south west states except Osun, he may avoid confrontation with the governor. “At a time Lagos is the only state in the south west controlled by Tinubu, the leader may not want to lose control of the state by engaging in a fight with the incumbent governor, so, he may let Ambode have the second term ticket,” it was declared. Ogun, Ondo, Ekiti and Oyo were said to have cut off Tinubu’s political influence from their states.
















Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment