Share this on WhatsApp



 
The All Progressive Congress, APC Campaign Council for the Osun governorship election, on Thursday expressed satisfaction with the result of the controversial governorship won by the ruling party after the supplementary election.
Chairman of the Council’s Media Committee, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, in a statement in Osogbo on Thursday congratulated the Governor-elect, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola, the outgoing Governor, Rauf Aregbesola, and the APC family for the well-deserved but hard-earned victory.
Lai Mohammed commended the INEC and security agencies for what he described as largely peaceful and orderly election, which he said was attested to by local and international observers.
APC was of the view that the biggest winner in the whole election saga is democracy, and gave the credit to the people of Osun as well as the State APC, which subscribed to the democratic process despite the high stakes.
Lai Mohammed declared: ”As we said in an earlier statement, the PDP, in its time, would not have given any room for a rerun as it would have hijacked the main election, with its brigandage, rigging and total disdain for the democratic process.
”But as a party of change, we believe strongly in the democratic process. We believe in the ability of the relevant institutions to carry out their assigned responsibilities and we believe in the ability of the people to do what is right.
”In the end, the good people of Osun did what is right by ensuring the shellacking of the PDP. This is the right thing to do, considering the impressive performance of the APC-government in Osun in the last eight years.”
The Information Minister advised the PDP to stop issuing threats and to take full advantage of the democratic process if it has any grouse with the supplementary election.
”When the PDP led in the main election, which was declared inconclusive, we did not threaten fire and brimstone, neither did we drag the International community into it. We simply went along with the prescribed process. We urge the PDP to emulate this,” he had said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment