Share this on WhatsApp



In 2018, the Ballon d’Or family expands. From now on, the trophy will be declined also in the feminine in order to designate the best player of the world. See you on December 3rd for the first winner. FF.fr details everything.
There was 1956, with the creation – at the instigation of the journalists of France Football – of the first Ballon d’Or, reward reserved for the only European players. Then 1995, with the extension of the mode of eligibility to any footballer evolving in a European club. And 2007, with a total openness to the world, without distinction of nationality. And so 2018, with the creation of the first Women’s Ballon d’Or, awarded after a vote of journalists specialized in women’s football around the world.
“One more step towards the evolution of our sport”
At a time when the place given to women arouses so much societal debate, the arrival of this supreme reward is not opportunistic. This is just a logical evolution for a growing discipline. This boom is reflected in the rise of several increasingly well-structured brands (OL, Wolfsburg, PSG, Manchester City, Chelsea …), as well as in the number of licensees (more than five million across the country). world, including 165,000 in France), TV audiences (764 million viewers at the 2015 World Cup) or crowds (seven games to more than 50,000 spectators at the 2015 World Cup in Canada). “The birth of the Ballon d’Or is another step towards the evolution of our sport which is progressing well, welcomes Wendy Renard, French international of Olympique Lyonnais. It’s a step forward, women’s football is evolving and inequality is shrinking even though there is still room for improvement. “” I’ve always wanted to see a woman win this prestigious award, “says Brazilian Marta. It’s a step towards more equality to see such a reward, as important in the world of football, being awarded to the players as well. ”
The news of the Ballon d’Or France Football
See you on December 3rd
The contenders to the first trophy will compete, first, a place among the fifteen named retainers (revealed on the chain L’Equipe and francefootball.fr October 8 at the same time as the list of thirty players for the male BO). The officialization of this first Women’s Golden Ball (as well as the Men’s Golden Ball and the Kopa Trophy rewarding the best young under-21 nominated by the former winners of the Ballon d’Or) will take place on December 3 occasion of a big gala diffused on the chain L’Equipe.
All the information about this Women’s Golden Ball is to be found in the new issue of France Football available Tuesday in newsstands or in digital.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment