Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi  Ambode has officially declared his re-election bid 2019 in the state, stating his poise to deliver more dividend of democracy in the state on the All Progressive Congress platform.
Ambode made a formal declaration of his aspiration at the open ground in Alausa, while different Ambode support groups who crowded the space, affirming his readiness to go the whole hog in making Lagos better he had earlier picked his nomination form for a second term at the APC Headquarters in Abuja.
“In these three and a half years as your governor, I have seen visible proof that we can achieve unbelievable things when we all come together, we did it together because you believe, I urge you to always stay positive but there is still a lot more to be done,I am not
daunted. I am not tired and I am sure you feel the same way because we all envision a better Lagos, a Lagos of our dreams,” he said.
The governor said he had collected his nomination form earlier in the day, and asked for support as he sought to continue with the mandate to steer the affairs of the state, he also appreciate the party’s National Leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed  Tinubu for the opportunity.
“I thank all members of our great party, the All Progressives Congress; our political leaders, most especially our National Leader, Chief Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for giving me the platform to contribute to the further growth and development of our state.
“I ask you to believe again, and together, let’s achieve more, exactly four years ago, I called on you to join me in a journey of selfless service to build a secure and prosperous Lagos State driven by a vibrant economy and supported by quality service, equity and
justice. You believed in me and gave me your support,” Ambode said. He thanked Lagosians for believing in him and his government as well as their support so far throughout this administration.
Speaking on Ambode’s second term bid, Sen. Gbenga Ashafa representing Lagos East Senatorial District said he was happy with Ambode’s declaration and was in support of his move.
Ashafa called on residents to support Ambode in order to witness a more prosperous Lagos. “We endorse him on the instruction of our leader Ashiwaju Tinubu,co-incidentallly I Olugbenga Ashafa also pick my nomination today.
Also, a member of the House of Assembly, Mr Tunde Braimoh, said Ambode deserved a second term as all he had done was visible for all Lagosians to see.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment