Share this on WhatsApp



 
The main opposition party, Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), says the party has what it takes to dislodge the ruling All progressives Congress (APC) from Aso rock comes 2019.
One of the party’s presidential aspirants, Senate President Bukola Saraki at the weekend said Nigerians must “change” President Muhammadu Buhari with a man who has capacity.
While meeting with members of the party in Owerri, Imo state, Saraki said there is need for a president who would ensure the country’s prosperity, adding that the present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari cannot take Nigeria to the next level.
“We must change Buhari with a man that has capacity, integrity and vision in order to realise our potential. I believe in restructuring that would give states opportunities to realise their potentials,” he said.
“I will continue to fight for the masses. We have to change the leadership. We need a leadership that would ensure justice and fair distribution of national appointments,” he said.
He said if elected as President, he would ensure everybody has food on the table, and also restore Nigeria’s global reputation.
“Nigeria has never been this divided. People are afraid to be called Nigerians. Ethnicity and religion have taken over. There is no inclusion anymore, no fairness, no federal character, no job and businesses are dying. Survival of businesses is survival of the country. Poverty is everywhere.”
Meanwhile, Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu said Nigerians are looking up to a “rebranded” Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) to rescue them after a “harrowing experience” in the last three years.
Speaking through his media aide, Uche Anichukwu, Ekweremadu charged the PDP to use its ward congresses exercise to showcase to Nigerians a “thoroughly rebranded” party ready to lead the charge to rescue the country.
“As the processes for the election of our flag bearers for the various offices in the 2019 elections begin, let me remind party faithful that in view of the harrowing experience of citizens and the nation’s dwindling fortunes in all respects in the last three years, Nigerians look up to our rebranded political platform to lead the charge to rescue Nigeria and give citizens new hope and lease of life,” the statement read.
“The ward congresses, therefore, represent our first step to reclaiming power and we must put our best foot forward. We must demonstrate the highest democratic ethos to reassure Nigerians that their renewed trust in us is rightly reposed.
“We must not only ensure that justice is done to all in a free, fair, credible, and peaceful process and atmosphere, we must also ensure that the party faithful, especially the aspirants and their supporters, see the processes to be free, fair, credible, peaceful, and just.”
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment