Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya
Ahead of the All Progressives Congress primaries for the State House of Assembly slated for 4th of October, 2018,one of the aspirants jostling for the party’s candidature,Prince Akintola Falade flagged off his campaign, stating his resolve to synergize with stakeholders in an attempt to deliver the dividend of democracy.
Falade who is set to contend for the Alimosho constituency 01 seat at the Lagos Assembly, according to reliable source, wields much influence amidst electorates and political stakeholders across the four Local Council Development Area; Ayobo ipaja,Agbado Okeodo,Mosan Okunola and Alimosho local government .
Some of the supporters who spoke with newsmen during the flag-off of his campaign noted that he was a grassroots mobilizer with a strong political network across the four LCDAs in Alimosho constituency 01, they indicate their resolve to mobilize and work for success of this aspiration been the only candidate with political experience and followers who can bring together the party members under one banner.
The anchors of his campaign referred to as Deep Thinking Team, whose competence for the task was affirmed by the class of individuals drawn from all these four LCDA championed the campaign process.
The arrival of the aspirant Omooba Akintola A. Falade was heralded by echos of ‘he is a prince’,’omooba ni’ which rent the air with the symbolic anthem rendition, “Ogo Yi Oluwa, ye Ogo yi”.
The campaign general coordinator Hon. Adewale OKubanjo from Agbado Okeodo speaking on behalf of all other coordinators appreciate the acceptance of the aspirant to contest,given his understanding of the past and present political happenings within the constituency been the largest in Lagos state and assures the aspirant, their unalloyed support to actualize his aspiration.
The aspirant,Omooba Akintola A. Falade in his appreciation speech for his supporters,harps on his resolve to work with all the party faithful and leaders across the Lcda to attract the desired dividend of democracy to the constituency.
Dignitaries at the event includes Chief Abel Olu Badejo pioneer chairman Mosan Okunola Lcda, Hon Sola Popoola, Agbado Okeodo, Hon Kayode obaleye,Hon Kunle Opeibi ,Deacon Taye Akindein and others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment