Share this on WhatsApp



pdp
The former governor of Delta State, Dr. Emmanuel Eweta Uduaghan, has vowed that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will fall in the state in the general elections in 2019. Uduaghan on a condolence visit to Chief Lucy Esigie, a chieftain of the APC in Olomoro, Isoko South, declared that Delta State must not be an opposition party after the 2019 general elections.
The former Delta State Governor, APC senatorial aspirant for Delta South, visited Esigie in Olomoro being joined by Prophet Jones Erue, House of Representative aspirant, Joel Onowhakpo Thomas and other APC member, on condolence over the death his sister, Mrs. Alice Ogri.
National Daily gathered that elated by the crow that turned out to welcome him in the community, Uduaghan remarked before the people that people from the opposition have not gotten over the shock that hit them since his defection last week.
“They have been trying to deconstruct the meaning of John the Baptist that I used in my defection statement.
“They are breaking their heads over it and wondering who and who will Uduaghan take to the APC.
“Well, my new role as John the Baptist would be to mobilise virtually every PDP member, not just in Delta State but also in the Niger Delta to the progressives’ fold.
“There are some people that we will not allow to cross over. They know themselves,” Uduaghan had declared.
The former governor asked if the dividends of governance are reflective of the wealth Delta State produces since playing opposition three years after he left government; the people were said to have responded with loud NO o o o!
Uduaghan then narrated: “Moses grew up in the palace where everything was comfortable for him but the Lord told him that his people were suffering.
“He charged Moses to leave the palace so as to liberate them.
“I have answered the call to return to active politics to liberate and unite our people who have been deeply polarised by the leadership of the PDP.
“I have come for APC to take over and I am leading the Take Over Squad.”
The former governor maintained that he has pitched his tent with APC to liberate the state from the jaws of the PDP.
He appealed to Delta State APC leadership at the gathering, the people of Isoko and the entire state to get ready because the battle would not be an easy one, but victory was sure for the party if everyone played their parts well.
He counseled youths in the state resist the temptation of fighting for crumbs that the PDP would throw at them, insisting that if they are hard working and purposeful, he would lead them to where they would be empowered for life.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment