Share this on WhatsApp



Governor Samuel Ortom camp may be facing fresh crisis in the preparations to the 2019 governorship election in Benue State. The crisis is springing from internal challenge and threat to unseat Governor Ortom by a member of the camp who, however, the governor left behind while defecting from the All Progressives Congress, APC, to the PDP.
National Daily gathered that former Special Adviser on Bureau for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, to Governor Samuel Ortom, Hon. Titus Zam, has picked the governorship nomination of the APC, declaring to unseat Ortom in 2019.
Zam had in Makurdi emphasized that he is on a mission to rescue Benue State from Ortom’s poor performance and to rebuild the state. He said that Ortom is ignorant of APC ideologies, manifestoes and programs; so, he could not act on them.
Zam assured the people of a government that would be people-driven through his five point agenda which includes; security, civil service welfare, pension administration and institutionalization of good governance, modernized and commercialized agriculture,/urban/rural renewal, education and health as well as youth empowerment and poverty reduction.
“The challenge of insecurity is not limited to herdsmen/farmers crisis but include other threats to life such as, kidnapping, communal clashes, armed robbery and among others. Therefore, if elected, I would adopt a multi-dimensional approach towards tackling these challenges,” Zam promised.
Zam decried: “The Benue people are poorer under Governor Ortom than the two previous administrations. The gap between the rich and ordinary man in the state today is wider as the middle class that was systematically created by George Akume and Gabriel Suswam has been deliberately wiped out by the Ortom administration.
“Unemployment in Benue today, has, reached their zenith and no one cares. As I speak, there is no single window for the employment of Benue graduates as all the openings in both private and public sectors have been shut down.”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment