Share this on WhatsApp



 
President Muhammadu Buhari has named a new Director General for the Department of State Service (DSS).
In a statement signed by Presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu, Yusuf Bichi, the new substantive DG would replace Matthew Seyeifa who had been in acting capacity since Yusuf Daura was fired.
The statement described Bichi as a “core secret service operative”.
“The new DSS boss comes to the job with skills in intelligence gathering, research analysis, conflict management, general investigation, risk and vulnerability operations, counter intelligence and protective operation and human resources management,” the statement read.
“In the course of his career, Mr. Bichi has worked as the State Director of Security in Jigawa, Niger, Sokoto and Abia states.
“He was at various times the Director, National Assembly Liaison, (National War College), Director at National Headquarters in the Directorate of Security Enforcement, Directorate of Operations, Directorate of Intelligence, Directorate of Inspection and Directorate of Administration and Finance.”
He attended Danbatta Secondary School, the Kano State College of Advanced Studies and the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria where he graduated with a degree in political science.
The new Director-General began his career in the security division of the cabinet office in Kano, from where he joined the Nigerian Security Organization (NSO), the precursor of the present DSS.
“Bichi has undergone training in intelligence processing analysis, agent handling recruitment and intelligence processing in the UK, as well as strategic training at the National Defence College,” the statement read.
He is married and with children.
Recall that while Buhari was on vacation in London in August, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo fired Lawal Daura, former director-general of the agency, and appointed Matthew Seyeifa in acting capacity.
This followed the invasion of the national assembly by armed DSS operatives.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment