Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, candidate in the controversial governorship election in Osun State, Senator Ademola Adeleke, has petitioned the Governments of the United Sates, US, the United Kingdom, UK, European Union EU countries, including the United Nations UN, alerting them that his life is under threat, as well as clampdown on opposition PDP members by the APC government.
Olawale Rasheed, publicity manager of the Adeleke Campaign Organization, ACO, in a statement indicated that Senator Adeleke notified the foreign missions of a clampdown on his supporters during preparations for the Thursday supplementary election in Osun State. The Senator protested being robbed the governorship election victory, criticizing the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, for compromising the process and refusal to declare him the winner of the governorship election which was concluded on Saturday, September 22, 2018, but INEC created excuses to declare the election inconclusive in order to manipulate the process to declare the APC candidate winner of the election. .
National Daily gathered that Rasheed acknowledged that the petition was sent to the European Union, the United States embassy and several other diplomatic missions in Nigeria and the United Nations.
The petition read: “I am constrained to write this letter to you, our diplomatic partners and friends of despotic happenings in Osun governorship polls which I won but for which I was not declared the winner.
“My life is under threat and leaders of my party are under siege before and after Saturday main polls.
“During the campaigns, we were subjected to countless attacks; I escaped about four assassination attempts.
“Our campaign vehicles were severally attacked, and our rallies disrupted. We went through the per-election process under constant onslaught from political thugs and merchants of violence.
“Despite the violence-prone climate, I still won the election on live television, our votes were removed and protests for re-addition of the votes were rejected.
“After all the manipulations which saw about 4,000 votes removed from my total votes, I still won by close to 400 votes.
“In a brazen assault on democracy, the returning officer in open breach of the constitution refused to declare me the winner even after fulfilling constitutional stipulations.
“The officer erroneously justified declaration of the election as inconclusive based on violence in seven out of about 3,000 voting units across the state. It was a travesty of justice that is under challenge in court of law.
“We count on you to mount pressure on the ruling party to restore people’s mandate in Osun State.
“We make this request because Osun State is the cradle of Yoruba people, denying them their inalienable right to pick their governor is a potent threat to democratic sustainability in Nigeria.
“Our nascent democracy has been under intense pressure and it is not in our collective interest to deepen the national stress index.
“We seek your intervention to prevent another rigging underway in Osun State. I am the holder of the sacred mandate of Osun people. We need the international community to assist Nigeria to make votes count.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment