Share this on WhatsApp







The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, on Tuesday, raised alarm over fresh plot of the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, to allegedly rig the 2019 general elections for the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC. The opposition political party argued that INEC’s ban of the use of smart phones in polling units is an obvious plan to rig the 2019 elections for the ruling APC.
PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, contended that INEC ban of phone at polling units is a surreptitious plot to prevent the global community from knowing its plan to rig the 2019 general elections.
FIdelis Soriwei, Special Adviser on Media Relations to the Governor of Bayelsa State, was said to have cited the PDP National Chairman of blasting the at a stakeholders meeting with Bayelsa East Senatorial District PDP members in Yenagoa on Tuesday.
National Daily gathered that Secondus had agitated that it is disturbing that INEC would attempt to prevent the use of smart phone, which he described the easiest means of communication in the society, during elections.
The PDP National Chairman stated that the ban of the use of smart phones is a strategy of INEC and the APC to rig the 2019 elections.
He stated that the ban has sent the country to the dark, primitive era.
Secondus had declared: “We have all heard what the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmud Yakubu, said about the decision to ban the use of smart phones in the polling units. All over the world, a smart phone is the easiest way of communication.
“What they have said clearly shows that the commission, in connivance with the All Progressives Congress, has perfected a rigging strategy for the next election.
“In fact, INEC has sent Nigeria back to the primitive days.
“The same plan to rig the 2019 election is responsible for the refusal of the President to sign the amended Electoral Act because the card reader must be used.
“Our position is that INEC is wrong, there is nowhere in the constitution or in the electoral act, where smart phones are banned.
“INEC, if you throw this country to crisis, you will be held responsible.”







Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment