Share this on WhatsApp



Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike has threatened his party with dire consequences if the APC moles in the PDP succeed in moving the venue of the PDP national convention from Port Harcourt.
He said his state will not support any desperate PDP presidential aspirant who is sabotaging the economy of the state by fighting the hosting of the party’s presidential primary in Port Harcourt.
While he mentioned no name, he alluded to a PDP presidential candidate preaching restructuring, yet unwilling to support the hosting of the convention in Rivers.
Amongst all the aspirants, ex-V.P Atiku Abubakar seems the biggest champion of restructuring, and he was the earliest defector from the APC to the opposition.
According to Wike, Rivers people will teach the party a bitter lesson if that happens.
Speaking during a consultative visit by the Gombe State Governor and PDP presidential aspirant Ibrahim Dankwambo, at the Government House Port Harcourt on Wednesday, Wike said at the PDP’s national meeting, no presidential aspirant opposed Port Harcourt as a venue.
“Those days have passed when they took Rivers State for granted. Nobody can use and dump Rivers State,” he said.
“No presidential aspirant can use and dump Rivers State. We never lobbied for it, we never asked for it, but it will boost the economy of the state. People will make money.”
“You come here to deceive us about restructuring. Just that Rivers State is a venue, you fight it. Then, when you are there, what will happen? You think we are fools where you preach restructuring, then when you get the position, you abandon restructuring,” he added.
The governor said that whether the National Convention holds in Jigawa or Adamawa, the winner preferred by the delegates will emerge.
“I don’t know why anyone who wants to be president, will be afraid of a venue. Then you are not prepared for the election.
“Nobody should dare Rivers State any longer. Enough is enough. PDP should know that we are not a punching bag. We are not a people you can use and push. We are not harlots. Whenever you want, you come. When you finish, you push us aside.
“We will retaliate at the appropriate time. When you go, tell your colleagues, the presidential aspirants. We were not interested, but having given it to us, you cannot insult us,” Governor Wike said.
The governor pointed out that there are persons who are not presidential materials, but have bought forms simply because the presidency is zoned to the North.
He wondered why a presidential aspirant would declare that he is uncomfortable with Port Harcourt as a venue, but would love Rivers oil.
Governor Wike said that at the appropriate time, he will reveal the names of presidential aspirants working with the APC-led federal government to scuttle the presidential primary.
He added that no presidential aspirant will use a few members of the Board of Trustees of PDP to scuttle the decision of the party to host the presidential primary in Port Harcourt.
The governor described Governor Dankwambo as eminently qualified to contest the position of President.
He said Mr Dankwambo will be considered when Rivers delegates meet to decide on who to support.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment