Controversies trail Adeosun resignation, flees Nigeria
        Share this on WhatsApp



 
Controversies have continued to trail the resignation of former Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun over the forgery of her NYSC certificate, especially her fleeing to the United Kingdom immediately she tendered her resignation.
Her latest action has left many to wonder whether she is scared of being arrested and detained; either because of the NYSC forgery scandal or because of other misdeeds she might have committed while in office.
Hours after the former Minister’s resignation, the ruling All Progressive Party (APC) issued a statement calling her decision to resign ‘an act of honour, strength, and integrity.’
According to the APC’s acting National Publicity Secretary (Mr Yekini Nabena) who signed the statement, “the right thing has been done, the honourable Minister has taken the path of honour and resigned”.
The statement, however, did not sit well with the opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party; PDP.
On Sunday, September 16th, the PDP blasted the ruling party alongside President Muhammadu Buhari, stating that neither of them has the right to speak of honour and integrity unless the former Minister of Finance is arrested and prosecuted.
PDP’s National Publicity Secretary (Mr Kola Ologbondiyan), who spoke on behalf of the party, also called on the Nigeria Police Force to “bring back the former Minister to answer to all kinds of financial crimes committed by the President Buhari administration.”
In the meantime, the former Minister remains out of the country. It is rather mind-boggling that the former Minister had to leave Nigeria barely a day after her resignation.
It could also be that she just needed to get away from the controversy and all the negativity that has trailed her since Friday, September 14th.
Meanwhile, the Take It Back Movement and AAC Party said it was quite telling that Ms. Adeosun was forced to resign, not because of her lacklustre performance as Finance Minister, but because of a sense of impunity that is too common among our leaders.
The group said the delay in dealing with the accusations of malfeasance also tells of a government more skilled at covering wrongdoing than it is at the business of strong leadership.
“We at the AAC and the Take It Back Movement hope that Ms. Adeosun’s resignation is an indication that this administration has finally learned the futility of lies. We hope that the present government will extend this call for transparency while occupying an official position to others with legal and ethical matters dangling over their heads.”
“We hope this move represents a new found honesty and sincerity towards the Nigerian people, and not simply election year politics. Given the appointment, dismissal and reappointment of those who have consistently failed Nigerians, we hope; but we are far from convinced.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment