Share this on WhatsApp




Barely few weeks after the Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun was forced to resigned following an NYSC certificate forgery scandal, another Minister, this time, Minister of Communications, Adebayo Shittu, has been alleged to have skipped the mandatory service.

Skipping the compulsory national service is an offence under the NYSC law, punishable with up to 12-month imprisonment.

According to an online medium, months of discreet checks at the NYSC headquarters showed that the communications minister did not present himself for service after graduation and is yet to do so till date.
It was alleged that Adebayo Shittu avoided the one-year mandatory youth service despite graduating from school at a required age.
According to the report, the minister who was born on March 23, 1953, studied law at Obafemi Awolowo University, Ife, graduating in 1978. He proceeded to the Nigerian Law School, Lagos, qualifying as a lawyer in 1979.
Having earned a bachelor’s degree at the age of 25, Section 2 of the NYSC Act expects Shittu to have participated in the year-long national service.
“Contacted Tuesday, Mr. Shittu admitted that he did not serve but claimed he thought his first political post after graduation could suffice as national service, a claim lawyers and NYSC insiders consider as ludicrous and untenable,” it added.
Despite not possessing an NYSC certificate, Shittu went on from being a state lawmaker, to occupying important government positions, including his current post as minister.
Shittu is a former attorney general and commissioner for justice in his native Oyo State. He also served as member of the Oyo State Judicial Service Commission from 2004 to 2007.
In 2005, he was nominated minister by President Buhari, and later assigned the communications portfolio upon legislative screening.
He also scaled the screening for the Oyo State House of Assembly, the SSS, and the National Assembly, who are all expected to screen commissioner and ministerial nominees before their appointment.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment