Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Kwara state Commissioner for Sports and Youth Development, Hon. Muideen Alalade has inaugurated three Sub-Committes, in a bid to ensure a hitch-free hosting of the second edition of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) sponsored Tertiary Institutions Football competition, tagged ‘Kwara 2018’,National Daily gathered.
The three committees are: Publicity Committee, Mobilization, Venues and Contact Committee as well as Technical Committee.
Hon. Alalade, who is the Chairman of the Main Organizing Committee (MOC) for the competition, while inaugurating the committes in his office over the weekend, charged them to build positively on the successes recorded in the first edition, and to also address the challenges observed.
While commending JAMB for the second time opportunity, he pointed out that the feat achieved in the maiden edition ocassioned the consideration to host the second edition, adding that Kwara has the potentials and manpower to always do it right.
He commended the state government, under the leadership of Dr. Abdulfatah Ahmed for providing the enabling environment and support for sports and youth development in the state and Nigeria.
Membership of the three committees were drawn from the MOC and other football stakeholders in Nigeria, and the committes, according to him, were reduced to three to curb wastage and ensure effectiveness.
He added that the MOC had earlier concretized agreement with the University of Ilorin and Kwara Football Academy on the hosting of the competition, and as well, met with the leadership of the Joint Steering Committee for Sports Development in higher institutions, comprising NUGA, NIPOGA and NICEGA, on the way forward.
The competition has tentatively been fixed for the first week of October this year.
Niger College of Education, Minna, Niger state won the first edition of the 16-institutions football competition which is being sponsored by JAMB, and supported by Kwara state government.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment