Share this on WhatsApp



 
The governorship rerun election in Osun state has been marred by violence in at least four of the seven polling units where the exercise is holding, National Daily has gathered.
Recall that the ndependent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had fixed the rerun following the declaration of Saturday election as inconclusive for today, Thursday, 27.
National Daily gathered that at ward 8, unit 1, suspected thugs invaded many polling units, preventing voters from exercising their franchise.
A resident of Orolu, who preferred to be anonymous for fear of being attacked, narrated how he was chased out of his village on the eve of the election.
“There is no credible election here in Orolu. The thugs working for the ruling party were bro“After invading out village yesterday, they sent us out. They know Orolu is the stronghold of their opponent. We took refuge in the palace of Olufon. Now, those of us in the opposition are not allowed to vote. My PVC is with them.”
ught from Ikire (a neighbouring village),” he said.
Ruka Ladosu, a nursing mother, was injured while going to ward 9, unit 3, Osogbo, to cast her ballot.
Ladosu narrated how the thugs collected her permanent voter card (PVC) and hit her with a stick.
The PVCs of some voters were also seized at ward 8, unit 1 in Kajola.
Meanwhile, there was drama at the Ward 7, Unit 12 Polling Unit in Adereti village, Ife South Local Government Area, as a PDP agent in the ongoing governorship rerun election was missing on duty.
An official of INEC, Stephen Oyewande, said he could not explain why the PDP agent was not on duty at the polling unit.
Oyewande, INEC’s Deputy Director, Voters Education, told newsmen to direct their enquiries on the missing party agent to the PDP. “Call the state chairman of the party and ask him why his party agent is not here. I can’t explain why he is not here,’’ he said.
The election is currently holding at ward 10, unit 2 in Ife north local government area; ward 07, unit 12 in Ife south local government area; ward 8, unit 10 in Ife south.
In Orolu local government area, it is ongoing at ward 8, unit 1; ward 8, unit 4; ward 09, unit 3; and ward 5, unit 17 in Osogbo local government area.
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment