Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL), has commended the All Progressive Congress (APC) over its decision to dump the gubernatorial ambition of the Minister of Communications, Mr. Adebayo Shittu, who did not participate in the compulsory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) programme after completing his university education.
This was contained in a press release issued by the Media and Publications Officer of the Centre, Ikenna Aghagbobi on behalf of the Executive Chairman, Mr Debo Adeniran.
According to Adeniran, “Recalling the controversy surrounding the Osun State PDP gubernatorial candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke, over certificate and examination scandals, I think it is another victory for the anti-corruption fight coming so closely after the Kemi Adeosun certificate forgery matter in which she was forced to resign as there was no hiding place for her anymore. This has given the rise to a conscious society with zero tolerance for public office holders and aspirants who lack requisite statutory qualifications to hold public office.”
“What should not be encouraged, under any guise, is a reign of impunity as the country steers towards consolidation of its democratic culture. The nation is presently facing a lot of challenges which require the present administration’s undivided attention and cannot afford to be bogged down by any distraction or controversy arising from the impropriety of any public official or in this case any aspirant.
“Our current situation as a nation demands that public officers serving the current government should be seen to be above board in implementing the administration’s Change agenda. Public officers and aspirants are also compulsorily required to demonstrate transparency, responsibility and accountability in steering the ship of state.
“It is in this regard that we, therefore, call on President Buhari to immediately wade into this reoccurring act of impunity displayed by Public office holders and aspirants by ensuring that defaulters are duly prosecuted and punished to serve as a deterrent to others with similar intentions. This is necessary to reinforce public confidence and send a clear signal that no criminal conduct would be tolerated by this government”.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment