Share this on WhatsApp



 
Former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Nuhu Ribadu, has joined the race to challenge Muhamadu Bindow, governor of Adamawa state, for the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2019.
Addressing members of the APC at the state secretariat of the party in Yola on Saturday, Ribadu said Bindow has performed below expectation.
He appealed for support, saying APC needs a new face to make a difference.
“Give me the chance and opportunity to make the difference. Our dear state is facing a number of developmental challenges that require urgent, holistic and strategic handling,” he said.
“We do not need cosmetics, which do not address fundamental issues that are cornerstone to our development as a people.
“It takes visionary leadership with capacity and modern thinking to provide that needed redirection, beyond deceptive makeup.
“It is this much-needed leadership that I promise to offer to our people. I come with genuine intention and I have a burning passion to change the fortunes of our people for good. With all sense of humility, I believe I possess the requisite credentials, both academic and character, required to move this state forward.
“I will run an all-inclusive government where all stakeholders like you truly have stakes.”
He urged party officials to ensure level playing ground for all aspirants.
“As we move into the primaries, what we require from you, our party leaders, is utmost level of responsibility by allowing free and fair contest,” he said.
”We cannot afford to manipulate our party into failure. Injustice can never stand. Even if it does, it would be on shaky foundations which can collapse at any time.
“Therefore, skewing a process like the primaries to favour one person, even though unpopular, may only lead our great party to failure, something no genuine party member would desire.”
Responding, Ibrahim Bilal, Adamawa APC chairman, lauded Ribadu for his commitment to the party and assured him and other aspirants of level playing field.
“I want to assure you of free and fair primaries and the commitment of the party executives to fully support any candidate that emerge,” Bilal said.
Apart from Ribadu and Bindow, Halilu Ahmed, an in-law to President Muhammadu Buhari, is also seeking the party’s endorsement to fly its flag for the governorship race.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment