Share this on WhatsApp



 
The fate of Lagos state governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, remained uncertain following the insistence of the Governor’s Advisory Congress, the highest decision-making body of the All progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos that a primary election will determine the party’s governorship candidate.
Arising from a crucial meeting on Saturday at the residence of the national leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, National Daily gathered that the party leaders in the state remained adamant the Ambode must come out to test his popularity among party members.
Following an internal feud between the governor and some leaders of the party in the state, there has been pressure on governor not to run for another term.
Jide Sanwo-Olu is said to be the preferred choice of Tinubu.
A member of the council who spoke with National Daily said the council agreed that a primary election will hold “because that is just the right thing to do”.
“We met and deliberated extensively on the governor’s second term bid and our forthcoming primary,” he said.
“And after the deliberations, we resolved that the party should hold the primary to pick its candidate because that is just the right thing to do.
“We are a democratic party that believes so much in internal democracy, so think we should allow everyone to sell themselves to members who will eventually determine their choices.”
Tunde Balogun, Chairman of Lagos APC, confirmed to National Daily that the meeting took place but said he was not authorised to speak about it.
“Yes, the GAC met today and made some decisions, but I will not speak on the outcome because I have not been asked to do so,” Balogun said.
“Chief Abayomi Finnih would address the press on Monday on the outcome. He has been appointed and he will give you all the details.”
Adeyemi Ikuforiji, a former speaker of the state House of Assembly, and Tajudeen Olusi, a chieftain of the APC in Lagos, were some of those who attended the meeting.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment