Share this on WhatsApp



African footballers in the Premier League have been discovered to be using black magic (juju) to enhance their careers and survive the competitiveness of top level football, an investigation by the Sun (UK) has revealed.
The investigation revealed that Premier League stars travel the 9,000-mile round trips to West Africa to visit Juju men with supposed supernatural powers to perform rituals which will reduce the risk of injuries and boost their skills.
Tottenham’s Togo striker Emmanuel Adebayor, 31, recently accused his mother of using Juju on him during a family feud.
The Chelsea legend Didier Drogba also told in a book how his former national team colleague Jean-Jaques Tizie used a bizarre ritual in a cemetery to chase bad spirits away.
The former West Brom striker Brown Ideye told the Sun: “I know players who get involved with the Juju men and they can’t get out. It’s a trap. They might get short-term benefits, but in the long run they pay for it. Juju men have a lot of influence.”
He continued: “These are men who are just trying to make themselves rich and tell you they can make your life perfect.
“If things like that worked then instead of Messi and Ronaldo winning world player of the year it should be some African players. I would advise players not to follow this route but it’s their choice; I can’t stop them.”
The Sun spoke to the wife of one Premier League star and she revealed that her husband wired about £1,000 a month to a witchdoctor in Ivory Coast.
According to her, Juju men dictate everything some footballers do, including when to hang up their boots.
A Juju man known as Marabout Degla, who the Sun tracked down in a remote town in Benin, claims to have made some of the world’s top players “top scorer or best player in the team or the world”.
According to the report, a ritual called the Troupkéka Milika, which costs around £460, can be done remotely from Degla’s home in the “sacred forest” near the city of Parakou.
Degla warned that during the nine-day ritual a footballer cannot sleep with any woman and must cover himself with white sheets when sleeping, adding that he offers a magic ring that would allow a player to dominate a match and his opponents.
Marabout Degla said the ritual’s cost is protection against witchcraft and black magic, adding that for the ritual to work “you must remember orphans, the disabled and work for the promotion of football in your country.”
The wife of a Premier League player who spoke about her husband’s relationship with his juju man said he makes numerous trips to his home country to be cleaned and could sometimes go along with required ritual elements like “a spotless white goat, lamb or chicken which would be slaughtered and then various oaths are made.”
Brown Ideye also noted that some witch doctors are fake and all they want to do is scam footballers. He said: “There are many fake witch doctors driving around in Range Rovers and living in mansions. But the genuine Juju man lives in a hut with no water or electricity.
“I don’t think the English players know too much about all this, but some managers are definitely aware because the players excuse themselves at the drop of a hat when the Juju man comes calling.”
It was also reported that an English team who were once on the eve of a crucial European match were asked to pay a witch doctor who arrived at the team hotel £50,000, but the payment was refused by the team captain despite pleas from the captain’s African team-mate.
The team lost that match with the African player and captain making mistakes that led to goals and a source said the whole incident was “creepy stuff.”
 
 
The Sun
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment