Share this on WhatsApp

Police invade Abuja residence in search of arms




Leader if the Pan Niger Delta Elders Forum, PANDEF, Chief Edwin Clark, has come under the surveillance of the Nigeria Police who invaded his residence in Abuja on Tuesday in search of arms.
National Daily gathered that the Police invaded Clark’s residence at Asokoro, Abuja, at 1.30pm and carried out search operations at the premises which lasted till 2.30pm when they departed.
It was gathered that operatives of the Nigeria Police that conducted the search in all the rooms of the South-South leader, explained that they were detailed to the residence to search for arms.
The Policemen were said to have carried out the operation at the directives of the Inspector- General of Police, Ibrahim Idris.
It was gathered that they did not find any incriminating evidence or any ammunition in the residence after the search operations.
National Daily recalls that Chief Edwin Clark has been in the vanguard of the socio-cultural groups in the South, including the Middle Belt of the North Central geopolitical zone, advocating for restructuring of the Nigerian polity, a political reform the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, does not seem to have interest or intention to accept.
The cultural organizations advocating restructuring include the Afenifere and Yoruba Elders council of the South West, Ohaneze Ndigbo of the South East, PANDEF of the Niger Delta, the Middle Belt Forum of the North Central, among others. Indeed, the Afenifere in Lagos last Sunday endorsed former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, PDP Presidential aspirant, for 2019 presidential election, commending him for his belief in restructuring. There is strong indication that other allies of Afenifere may align with the Yoruba group’s decision. More so, Clark is an ardent supporter of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State who is currently on target to be unseated in 2019 by APC leaders/.
Thus, the federal might could have been deployed to intimidate leaders of these other groups to which Clark became the first noticeable victim on Tuesday.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment