Share this on WhatsApp



 
Former Nigeria’s Minister of Finance, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala has commiserated with Nigeria on the death of over hundred people when Nigeria’s two major rivers burst their banks, flooding several villages in the North Central and some villages in South-South.
The former Managing Director of the World Bank who paved the way for the write-down of Nigeria’s historic debts due her tenure as finance minister expressed her condolences on her tweeter handle on Friday.
Recall that thousands of people have been displaced and vast swathes of farmlands have been destroyed by the floods, worst hit is Niger State, where more than 40 people have died.
Eleven other states have been affected – they are Kwara, Benue, Kogi, Adamawa, Taraba, Kebbi, Bayelsa, Edo, Anambra, Rivers and Delta.
Nigerian authorities are considering declaring a state of emergency, saying more floods could hit in the coming days and weeks as heavy rains continue.
Okonjo-Iweala tweeted: So sad to hear about the devastating floods and loss of lives in Nigeria. My deepest condolences to those affected.
She said a once in 30 year’s event has become too frightening frequent. She therefor called on the authorities to consider weather based insurance approaches and also to put in place a strong risk mitigation and risk management strategy in the context of climate change.
In July, about 49 people were killed when torrential rains flooded villages bordering Nigeria’s border with Niger. Five villages in Jibia district were affected after a river burst its banks after hours of heavy rains overnight.
Nigeria faces flooding almost every year. The raining season which typically runs from March to September, brings with it inevitable flooding.
Such flooding is exacerbated by poor infrastructure and lack of planning to protect against the waters, but this year the destruction has been the worst since 2012.
At least 140 people were killed and tens of thousands forced to abandon their homes that year, in Nigeria’s worst flooding in more than five decades.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment