Share this on WhatsApp



 
Candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in Osun state governorship election, Ademola Adeleke has lamented the attack on his supporters, saying the state is currently under siege.
Reacting to the conduct of the rerun, Adeleke accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of conspiring with the ruling All Progressives Congress.
“This is not a free and fair election. Osun state is under siege; we are at war in Osun. They didn’t allow my party to vote,” he said.
“It’s only APC people they allowed to vote. INEC and security agents have compromised. So, there is no election in Osun today. I urge INEC to cancel the election with immediate effect and declare me the winner because I’ve already won the election. ”
INEC had declared the election inconclusive, saying the margin between the two leading candidates was not significant enough to declare a winner.
Adeleke had polled 254,699 votes ahead of Isiaka Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who had 254,345 votes, leaving a margin of 353.
The commission had announced that 3,498 votes were cancelled across seven polling units in four local government areas.
Meanwhile, the Nigeria Police on Thursday said it arrested some persons impersonating officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the ongoing Osun governorship rerun election.
Folasade Odoro, police spokeswoman in the force department of operations, who disclosed this said the individuals were arrested in Orolu, one of the local government areas where the rerun is taking pace.
Odoro said the suspects were in possession of membership cards of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) and customized INEC tags, face cap and jackets used for “easy access to restricted areas meant for personnel with due accreditation.”
“Police team on stop and search duties at Orolu; intercepted vehicles with sixteen persons on board in possession of customized INEC tags, face cap and jackets with the inscription of “INEC Osun 2018 Election Observer” and PDP membership cards, The suspects are using the items to have easy access to restricted areas meant for personnel with due accreditation.
“The Nigeria Police Force wishes to debunk report that some accredited INEC Observers were arrested or denied access to polling units. Therefore, assuring the good people of Osun State and other critical stakeholders of its renewed commitment and resolve to ensure adequate security for a free and fair re-run election while investigation continues.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment