By Esther Egbe
The ex-Olympian and national team captain Oyedeji told National Daily that there is still more to be done to harness the surplus Nigerian Basketball talents.
Fourteen-year-old Togolese Mubarak Bote and 13-year-old, Osun’s Olawuyi Adenike bagged scholarships worth $45,000 each to further their education for showing outstanding skills, discipline and emerging Most Valuable Player and Most Promising Player respectively at the just concluded Olumide Oyedeji Basketball Camp in Lagos,National Daily learnt.
Bote who is 6 foot 11 inches will be attending the Florida Air Force Academy in Florida, USA to further his education and improve his basketball skills alongside quality education. The scholarship will cover tuition, boarding fees, books and other academic materials. Likewise US bound Olawuyi Adenike.
Both players including 12 year old Owonubi Emmanuel named most promising player at the camp, join the illustrious Alumni of the Olumide Oyedeji Basketball Camp who have benefited from the former NBA star’s give back initiative which started in year 2000.
The list includes ex national team players Churchill Odia, Nurudeen Adepoju, Solomon Tat and Rashidat Sadiq to mention a few. Current stars, Zenith Bank Women’s Basketball League 5x MVP Nkechi Akashili and Uju Ugoka currently preparing to represent Nigeria at the FIBA Women World Cup in Spain later this month and not forgetting Guinness Book of recorder and Dance Queen, Kafayat Shafaru AKA Kaffy, who was Most Promising player at the camp in 2000.
” I am grateful to have an opportunity to do all this, but there are just too many talents in this country. I can only hope and work harder to give more opportunities to these kids and help them achieve their dreams of becoming Pro athletes and giving them quality education along the way”.
The final day of the one week camp had important dignitaries and retired national team stars present to motivate and encourage the kids to work hard and believe in themselves.
Some of the dignitaries include Director General of the Lagos State Sports Commission,  Babatunde Bank Anthony, MD Honeywell Foods, Mr Lanre Jaiyeola, Ex Super Eagles star Wahidi Akanni and ex prolific footballer John Fasanu. Ex D’Tigers star Baba Jubril , former Nigerian Olympian Juliet Negedu and Ayo Odediran. Music stars Sound Sultan and wonder kid musician Ozzy B all graced the 19th Olumide Oyedeji Basketball Camp.

			
			Post Views: 
			50