Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Presidency has described Dr. Bukola Saraki as a dangerous and desperate politician who can do anything to achieve his inordinate ambition.
A statement by presidential spokesman Garba Shehu said: “The Presidency wishes to react to the crude speeches hitting the news from Senator Bukola Saraki who recently joined the Peoples’ Democratic Party with the sole ambition of running for the president of Nigeria.”
Recall that Saraki, who defected from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to seek the presidential ticket of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), described Buhari as lacking the vision and capacity to run the country.
The Senate President urged the electorate to replace the APC leadership, which he accused of causing disunity in the country.
In his search for support, the Senate President claimed that the country needed a leader of his stature to unite the country and create a sense of belonging through fair distribution of appointments.
He insisted that the country was in need of a young vibrant leader with the capacity to withstand the rigours of governance at all time.
He said governance must be accompanied with the willingness and capacity to give 24 hours attention to the demands of the job.
Garba Shehu in response said throughout Saraki’s political career, he has shown that he is a very dangerous person who can go any length to promote his personal interests.
“The language of his campaign is such that cannot be used against a domestic help. Is he just knowing that the President lacked vision? This is someone that the Senator had worked with very closely for more than three years. Amazingly, he never said all that he is now saying against him.
“Rather, his word for and on the President were always respectful and reassuring. That’s the man he called ‘My Father’. About him, ‘there is no cause for alarm…a President who is healthy, witty and himself.’ What then changed, all of a sudden?
Garba Shehu urged all Buhari supporters to display restraint in language and conduct and to always put across their points of view in a decent language.
 
 
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment