Share this on WhatsApp

 By Esther Egbe

Three Nigeria National League  (NNL) coaches have resigned from their respective clubs.

Coaches Tunde Sanni of ABS FC, Napoleon Aulma of Warri Wolves FC, and Shama Inusa of EFCC FC  resigned to avoid being sacked by their club management,who were already frustrated with their non-performance.

The first coach  to have left his job was Sanni of ABS FC, Ilorin . He blamed a lack of backing from the club’s management as the key reason behind his resignation.

Coach Sanni turned in his resignation letter to the club’s director of football, Alloy Chukwuemeka following a closed door meeting on Monday at the club secretariat.

Recent events at the club suggested a lot was wrong with club owned by the country’s No. 3 citizen Senate President Bukola Saraki.  The club  recently did not honor an away match in the NNL while the rumors of non-payment of salaries for over four  months continues to hang over the club.

Aulma, too,  has parted ways with the club on mutual consent.

The Warri Wolves management after an emergency meeting decided to relieve the head coach of his duties.

National Daily learnt that the club chairman, Steve Cole, and the general manager, Tony Rafua,  expressed dissatisfaction with the unacceptable present club position and they said a drastic change was needed in other to survive and remain in contention for the rest of the season.

The club’s management who have asked Coach George Emenatie to take the role of Head Coach in an interim position went on to thank Coach Napoleon for his good work at the club during his time while also wishing well in his future endeavors.

The last coach, Inusa,  in tears handed in his resignation letter to the club’s management following a below par NNL campaign which has seen the team lose 11 of 12 available points in the league.

It is believed that Inusa tendered his resignation letter to the management of the team because he  perceived he would be sacked if the devastating performance of the team continued.

Inusa came to the team with twelve players who according to him were ‘experienced’ but old and he ended up sacking ten of them before the end of the first stanza of the 2018 NNL season.

Since the resumption of the second stanza of the 2017/18 NNL season,  Inusa managed to get only one point from four matches, a shameful and embarrassing results which was one of the reasons that led to his calculated resignation.

For the first time in 10 years, he led EFCC FC to a disgraceful 2018 FCT Aiteo cup early exit to lowly rated non-league team.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment