Share this on WhatsApp



The usual Bobo Vieri, genuine and hairless on the tongue, tranchant, direct. On the whole. Starting from Cristiano Ronaldo. The meeting with Pier Pardo in Pressing is a show, immediately. Not even the time to launch a service that summarized the not exciting moment of Ronaldo to Juventus and the abstinence of goals of the Portuguese: “If we discuss Ronaldo I’m leaving,” jokes Bobo. And again: “We have to leave him alone,” he continued, “but in Italy we are able to criticize him, but he does not have a lot of goals, he wants to score and if he had luck he would have scored 5 goals in 3 games. It means that the chances have had, is the ball that does not want to get in. Juve must learn to put it in the condition to score and he must settle, it is only in the third game.It has had many opportunities, it is always there and we see that he is the strongest of all: sooner or later the ball will enter “.
Doubts zero. Indeed, for Vieri, even less. “The Serie A and the Liga are two completely different championships but the goals will make them – explains Bobo – I do not know how many but he will do them … The ideal attack partner for CR7? I would always play Douglas Costa and Dybala but decide the coach: the fouls of Pjanic and of Cuadrado punished only with the yellow? for me they were both red “.
From Ronaldo to the rest of the championship, starting from Napoli, fresh from defeat against Samp: “Too much turnover for Napoli? To change some players but Napoli did not play in the week: at this moment I would not have made turnover. I’m the coach “.
“Quagliarella’s heel goal is a stroke of instinct, when you get those crosses you do not have time to think … A judgment on Milik is very strong, today he could not do anything, he received very few balls and was always doubled. But he remains a great striker “.
The judgment on Inter is definitely tranchant: “Nainggolan? It’s strong, it has technical qualities and a great shot, where can the Nerazzurri get in? In the Champions League, nobody can play with Juventus, but Inter all the years have to get in Champions There is no anti-Juventus, Napoli is the only one “.
Finally on Cutrone: “Do you like it? It’s a good young man … With Higuain? In theory, no, they are two striker, but when ten minutes are left as Friday it’s fine”.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment