Europe’s top club coaches have asked UEFA to review the use of the away goals rule in continental competitions because scoring away from home is not as difficult as it used to be.
They also want the transfer window to end at the same time in all the region’s major leagues.
UEFA’s deputy general secretary Giorgio Marchetti confirmed that the European soccer body would “open a discussion” on the use of the away goals rule which is used to determine the winners of knockout ties when the aggregate score is level.
The annual meeting included Massimiliano Allegri (Juventus), Carlos Ancelotti (Napoli), Unai Emery (Arsenal), Paulo Fonseca (Shakhtar Donetsk), Julen Lopetegui (Real Madrid) Jose Mourinho (Manchester United), Thomas Tuchel (Paris St Germain) and former Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger.
“The coaches think that scoring goals away is not as difficult as it was in the past… so they think the rule should be reviewed and that’s what we will do,” Marchetti told reporters.
EPL to use VAR this season
The Premier League will trial VAR at 15 matches this season – starting after the international break, National daily understands.
The Professional Game Match Officials Limited (PGMOL) aim to prove the system is fit for purpose before presenting its findings to Premier League shareholders next year, with the aim of fully introducing it from next season.
The first trial will take place for five 3pm kick-offs on September 15 to see if the VAR hub at Stockley Park, near Heathrow, can cope with decisions arising from multiple matches.
The ‘as-live’ match scenario will be replicated in the VAR hub but there will be no contact between the team at Stockley Park and the officials on the pitch.
Referees have been encouraged by the use of the technology at recent EFL Cup games. VAR is also due to be tested during selected FA Cup ties this season.
The Premier League are confident their decision to delay the introduction of the system until officials grew more familiar with it, has been vindicated.
They have mild concerns that VAR may have lost some support among fans after its use in the controversial award of the penalty which led to France’s second goal against Croatia in this summer’s World Cup final.