Share this on WhatsApp



Norway based Nigerian striker, Leke James invitational tournament billed  to commence from 6-15th December 2018 has been unveiled.
The chairman of the Local Organizing Committee (LOC), Mr Timothy Felix told National Daily that the purpose of the second edition is to create common ground for friendship and talent discovery.
“The tournament is intended to give players the chance to polish their talents and embrace core  values such as teamwork, friendship and respect through their shared passion”
He went further by enumurating the opportunities the tournament is geared towards achieving ‘, ” This edition promises to leave an enduring legacy towards promoting grassroots football development in Kaduna State and Nigeria by extension.
Opportunities like this led to the discoveries of football legends like’,Jay Jay Okocha, Daniel Omokachi, Emmanuel Babayaro, Celestine Babayaro, Tijani Babagida among other stars we celebrate today.
“Plans are also on ground to make this edition have a better experience for players, sponsors and fans. International scouts from across Europe will be on ground to spot talents and give opportunity to local stars to take their talents outside the shores of Nigeria.”
The former Beijing Enterprises star who started his playing carrier with grassroot club Nitre stars of Angwar Rimi was unavoidably absent due to club engagements but sent in a video clip from his base in Norway.
“Let me thank the Kaduna State Government, SWAN,(Kaduna) Ex- internationals, all grassroots coaches present, the Local Organising Committee and all those who have come to identify with us.
“This gathering is not all about Leke James but football development in the state. Let’s all join hands together and make this second edition a memorable one.”
Dignitaries present at the  press briefing include,  Mr Christopher Illiya (SA Youth Development) who represented the Honourable Commissioner for Youths, Sports and Culture. Yahuza Ilu (Deputy Director Creative Art). Ex-international, Akin Akinseinde, Ex U23 and Julius Berger star, Dayo Davies among others.
The (10) day tournament will feature 16 grassroots teams drawn from the nuke and crannies of the state and will play for the ultimate prize of $560 and other mouthwatering prizes.
All matches will be played at the Kaduna Township Stadium with the final scheduled for the Ahmadu Bello Stadium.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment