Share this on WhatsApp



By Esther Egbe
Following the just concluded Seyi Akinwunmi Football Tournament, Ekiti State U-13 football team fondly called the ‘Little Ones’, have been offered Sports and Academic scholarships to secure their future,National Daily learnt.
The Little Ones from Ekiti defeated favourites Kwara State U-13 team in the final of the tournament to clinch the title and some of the outstanding lads were duly rewarded with academic scholarships worth N150,000 each.
However, the cynosure of all eyes was 12 years old prodigiously talented goalkeeper Akeem Bashir a JSS 2 pupil who lives with his aged grandfather who is struggling to send him to school. He was awarded a double scholarship awards from  Akinwunmi on Academic Scholarship and  Reckitt Benckiser makers of Dettol on Sports Scholarship.
The General Manager of Phoenix Athletic Sports Club, Bayo Olanlege, that facilitated the scholarships for other members of the squad whose parents are struggling to keep the kids in school, was emotional about the future of the young lads who he describes as ‘prides of the future’ .
” The future of this country lies in the hands of our kids. And for us at PASC (Phoenix Athletic Sports Club), we are concerned and working to ensure our tomorrow is safe by investing in the future of our children by working with various organizations to provide them with academic and sporting opportunities,” he enthused.
” I was heartbroken when I learned little Uche dropped out of school at JSS 2 due to lack of funds. However, I am glad to reveal to you that the young lad would resume his academic career alongside others this September at the Ekiti Baptist High School, Igede Ekiti. Never again should we allow our kids to suffer for lack of opportunities, ” he stated.
He went on to appreciate the selfless efforts of Akinwunmi, several Nigerian sports enthusiasts in diaspora, as well as,  Reckitt Benckiser makers of Dettol for helping to keep the future of the kids alive.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment