Share this on WhatsApp

He took to his Instagram page and wrote: “My girl is killing it @genevievennaji…a must watch flick. A film that resonates with our culture and people.

“Don’t stop making a difference hun. We believe in you.”

And that is Ramsey Noah speaking.


Ramsey Nouah, Nollywood Actor/Filmmaker, joined in celebrating his colleague, Genevieve Nnaji, after she made her directorial debut with the movie, ‘LionHeart’. Lionheart premiered during 2018 Toronto International Film Festival at TIFF Bell Lightbox in Toronto, Canada, and was later acquired by Netflix.


Ramsey Nouah (born Ramsey Tokunbo Nouah Jr.; 19 December 1970) is a Nigerian actor. He won the Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role in 2010.

Nouah was born in Edo State to an Israeli father and a Yoruba mother who hails from Owo, Ondo State. He grew up in Surulere, Lagos, where he attended Atara Primary School and Community Grammar School. He obtained a diploma in mass communications at the University of Lagos, after which he pursued a career in acting.

Nouah’s acting career kicked off when he starred in the Nigerian TV soap opera Fortunes. Nouah has since then appeared in numerous films starring as the lead role. He has been called “Lover-Boi” for his numerous roles in the romantic film. In 2010 Nouah won the African Movie Academy Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role for his performance in the Best Picture award winning film The Figurine. Nouah is considered to be one of the most sought-after actors in Nigeria.

Genevieve Nnaji born 3 May 1979) is a Nigerian actress, producer, and director. She won the Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role in 2005, making her the first actress to win the award. In 2011, she was honored as a Member of the Order of the Federal Republic by the Nigerian government for her contribution to Nollywood.

On September 7, 2018 her directorial debut “Lionheart” was acquired by online streaming service Netflix marking it the first Netflix original film from Nigeria. Genevieve also confirmed the news via her social media handle after it’s announcement by the company.

Nnaji was born in Mbaise, Imo State, Nigeria but grew up in Lagos, the fourth of eight children and was brought up in a middle-class environment. Her father worked as an engineer and her mother as a nursery school teacher. She attended Methodist Girls College (Yaba, Lagos), before transferring into the University of Lagos where she graduated with a bachelor’s degree in creative arts. While at the university, she began auditioning for acting jobs in Nollywood.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment