Share this on WhatsApp



 
Telecommunications provider, Airtel Nigeria, said it has partnered three of the leading phone brands in Nigeria – Infinix, Itel, and Tecno – to offer increased value delivery to customers.
The strategic partnership is a kind of sales promotion which works in such a way that Artel customers get to enjoy a special data package “Double Data Offer’ every time they buy any of the phone brands.
Every time an Airtel customer buys either an Infinix, Itel or Tecno phone, they will enjoy double the value of every data plan they buy henceforth. The double data value package would then last until six months after the initial phone purchase, allowing customers to enjoy increased data.
Both existing and new subscribers of the network provider are eligible to partake in the new offer.
Commenting on the partnership, the company’s Chief Commercial Officer, Mr Dinesh Balsingh, claimed the new initiative would help improve data penetration in the country. In his own words:
“This partnership will empower more Nigerians to fulfill their personal and professional endeavors and also help connect more telecoms consumers to their dreams. Airtel is committed to delivering innovative and affordable mobile Internet value propositions that will make life richer, better and more meaningful for Nigerians.” – Balsingh
Meanwhile, this is part of the company’s plan to combat declining subscription base
As reported, a recent report by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) shows that the rate at which Airtel Nigeria’s customers are dumping the network has been on the increase. The company recorded a total number of 5,833 port-outs; a situation whereby current subscribers dump a carrier for a different one. This is the highest number of port-out activities during the second quarter of 2018.
Consequently, while the likes of MTN Nigeria and Globacom continue to lead the telecom sector with 40.8% and 24.54% market shares respectively.
Airtel Nigeria is one of the top four telecoms service providers in Nigeria. It is a subsidiary of Bharti Airtel Limited which is headquartered in New Delhi, India.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment