Share this on WhatsApp



 
By Esther Egbe
Organizer of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon, Hon Bukola Olopade, on Tuesday, advised professional athletes not to dream of winning any of the lucrative prizes for the 2019 Access Bank Lagos City Marathon race slated for February 2, 2019.
Olukayode Thomas, Head Communications, and Media,  told National Daily that any athlete registered by AFN, the IAAF or any other federation elsewhere in the world including state athletics associations are ineligible to participate in the 10km race.
“If they do and win, they will not get any of the prizes.”
The 10km races start at the Lekki Roundabout and finish at the Eko Atlantic City, Lagos.
Olopade, who is the Project Consultant, said apart from promoting the city of Lagos, encouraging tourism and other socio-economic benefits, the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon was conceived because of the immense health benefits that come with running, walking and jogging,
“We want our people to embrace exercise, running, jogging and walking as a way of life because of the immense health benefits that come with it. That is why one of our sponsors, Kia Motors, is giving away two cars to winners of the 10 km race and our other sponsors are also giving millions of Naira as prize money.”
Olopade said an ordinary fun runner in Ajegunle or Ajah can win a car or millions of Naira.
“It will encourage others to embrace the culture of running as they will aim for the prizes, and by so doing, enjoy the health benefits of running. Healthy citizens mean a more productive workforce and less spending on healthcare by the government, thus money for healthcare can be channeled to other areas of need”.
The race organizer urges fun runners across Nigeria to register for the race,
The prizes are strictly for fun runners, any professional athlete that participates will be disqualified. Registration is open online, at all Access Bank branches nationwide and in other parts of Lagos.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment