Share this on WhatsApp



 
Akwa Ibom State government has reiterated its commitment to ensuring that the Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) Unit of Ibom International Airport is made functional for enhancement of aviation services in the country.
The State Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel, stated this while receiving a report of Assessment of the Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul facility of the Ibom International Airport from former Governor of the state, Obong Victor Attah at Government House, Uyo.
He lauded Obong Attah for his vision in establishing the Ibom International Airport alongside a world class MRO facility, which according to him, is the first of its kind in the West African sub-region and Africa as a whole.
Mr. Emmanuel who said that the facility which is seventy percent completed would commence services as soon as the state government reaches agreement with a willing operator of the facility, explained that the state government is prepared to partner with the federal government on its proposed National Carrier services even on a good concession.
He said his government is willing to give a whole lot of concession to whoever will come in, in terms of equity, sharing.
The Governor said that the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadiq Abubakar during his last visit had given assurance of partnership for the maintenance of aircraft in its fleet and expressed optimism that the Air Marshal will make good his promise.
“We want that assurance that at least the regional flight here, all those aircrafts will be maintained here because this is one asset that activity must bring revenue and revenue is what will bring sustenance and return of whatsoever investment that we are making.” He stated.
Earlier, former Governor Attah who spoke on the viability of the MRO facility described it as revenue earning and employment generation venture embarked upon by the state government and urged the state administration to expedite action on the completion of the facility as well as selection of Operator.
He explained that the acquisition of Aircrafts by the federal government and private operators has expanded the aviation industry thereby making it viable for the MRO services.
The former Governor regretted the absence of major MRO facility in Airports in the West and Central African region, pointing out that the situation has skyrocketed the cost of maintaining aircrafts in the region.
Dispelling media report of no feasibility study on the project, Obong Attah said  feasibility study had been undertaken and reviewed before the then Minister of Aviation encouraged the state to build the MRO to provide services to Air line operators.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment