Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Nigeria Labour Congress has expressed its displeasure with telecom giant over its unethical conducts and flagrant disobey of Nigeria’s regulation in its conduct in Nigeria.
In a statement released on Sunday, NLC president, Ayuba Wabba urged MTN to comply with the federal government’s directive to return the $8.1 illegally repatriated out of Nigeria.
NLC also urged the federal government not treat the telecom giant with a kid glove, adding that it must ensure that MTN refunds the $10.1bn it owed the country.
Recall that the Central Bank of Nigeria had alleged that the telecommunications company repatriated $8.1 billion using irregular certificates of capital importation and the federal government, through the attorney general of the federation, had requested to pay $2 billion in tax arrears.
”We similarly urge the Federal Government to spare no effort in recovering this money as anything to the contrary will send wrong signals to other corporate organisations it had punished for lesser tax infractions,” Ayuba said in the statement.
”The need to enforce this order is all the more compelling when it is realised that workers pay taxes they can ill-afford, but religiously pay all the same.
”In our view, this incident does not only directly test the Thabo Mbeki Report on Illicit Financial Flows from Africa, it is also a major crime against the government and people of Nigeria.
“On our part, we are, however, not surprised by the unethical conduct of MTN.
“They are not only engaged in the exploitation of Nigerian workers and turning them into slaves, but have extended their frontiers to unwholesome economic exploitation and sabotage.”
He stated that through the Tax Justice Campaign, labour had relentlessly and assiduously drawn the attention of the government and Nigerians to the humongous crime against the vulnerable people of Africa, especially Nigerians.
”Government should use this opportunity to send an appropriate message to everyone, especially corporate organisations who often pay taxes in the breach.
”Coupled with this, government’s tax reforms will only make meaning if they are judiciously executed.”
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment