Share this on WhatsApp



 
Former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode has taken a swipe at Chief Iyiola Omisore, governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Osun state over his decision to work with the All Progressives Congress (APC) against the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in tomorrow’s rerun election.
Omisore, who came a distant third in the inconclusive election, has been under pressure from the PDP and APC because Ife, his stronghold, is among the four local government area where the rerun would hold.
He had initially failed to endorse any of the leading parties, asking his supporters to go with any party that shares the interest of SDP.
Twenty-four hours after, Adams Oshiomhole, Chairman of the APC, four governors, a minister and a high-ranking APC legislator met with Omisore, he said his party had decided to endorse APC.
Reacting to Omisore decision to work with the APC in defeating the PDP at the governorship rerun scheduled for Thursday, Fani-kayode said the decision is shameful.
Tweeting on his handle, Fani-Kayode said it is sad that Omisore would seek to deny Ile-Ife the position of Deputy Governor simply for money.
The running mate to Ademola Adeleke of the PDP is Albert Adeogun, member of the House of Representatives representing Ife federal constituency, while the running mate to Gboyega Oyetola of the APC is Barrister Benedict Adegboyega Alabi who hails from Ikire.
“Iyila Omisore’s decision to support the APC in Tomorrow’s rerun is shameful. It is sad that he would seek to deny Ile-Ife the position of Deputy Governor simply for money. He told me h would stand firm 2 days ago and he told our father baba Ayo Adebanjo the same thing last night,” Fani-Kayode tweeted.
Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said it is confident that God will grant the party victory in the Osun state governorship rerun election scheduled for Thursday.
Addressing journalists in Abuja on Wednesday, Eddy Olafeso, PDP national Vice-Chairman (south-west), said the party has already won the supplementary election.
On the outcome of the meeting with Iyiola Omisore, candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the election, Olafeso said the party is hoping on God, not individuals.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment