Share this on WhatsApp



BY IFEANYI IZEZE
When our Man of God, Rev Chris Oyakhilome D.Sc, many years ago prophesied of a mega crusade by Christ Embassy Church in the city of Gwagwalada in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), it may have sounded out of this world considering the location and the time the prophecy was made. However, the “Night of Bliss Gwagwalada” which held on the 31st of August was indeed a prophecy coming to reality.
The Zonal Pastor of Christ Embassy Abuja Virtual Zone, Pastor Dipo Fisho, in his welcome speech at the event, did not mince words when he said: “We are gathered on this ground today as a fulfilment of the prophecies spoken by our Man of God, Rev Chris Oyakhilome (D.Sc) many years ago.”
Pastor Dipo who was emphatic that the programme was orchestrated by the Holy Ghost Himself, said the Ministry was in Gwagwalada with the singular aim to rebuild and impact the city with the Gospel of Faith and Grace and to banish evil from the land completely.
He explained to the audience that that Christ Embassy, aka Believers Loveworld Incorporated is a global ministry with a vision of taking the divine presence of God to the peoples and nations of the world and demonstrating the character of the Spirit.
As he said,” these are achieved through every available means as the ministry is driven by a passion to see men and women all over the world come to the knowledge of the divine life made available in Christ Jesus.”
No doubt, when God visits a people, He gives a location and a date and that was what happened at the Night of Bliss Gwagwalada on the 31st of August 2018.
There was no further confirmation that the programme was indeed orchestrated by the Holy Ghost but from the manifested oppositions both from the authourities, the weather and so many other quarters.
Just when site preparations had gone far, the Authourities for no cogent reasons, revoked the earlier permit granted us to use the venue and placed a stop work order at the location but because we are a people that know their God and bent on doing exploit with the gospel of His son and our Lord, Jesus Christ, we were not deterred by the revocation. As Shedrach, Meshack and, Abednego said in Daniel 3: 16-18, we were not careful to answer them. We know our God is able to deliver us from the burning furnace (conspiracy of government officials), but even if He will not, we will still not bow to your statue. And so despite the embargo, work on the site, which was more or less a virgin ground, did not stop for one day.
The rain also thought it would be an impediment to the programme but because we were fully persuaded like Apostle Paul said that neither death, nor life, nor powers, nor heights, nor depth, nor rain shall be able to separate us from the love of God; Nay, in all these things we are more than conqueror through Christ that loved us (Rom 8: 37-39).”  The series of rain that night were defied even by the invitees including the many highly-placed dignitaries who obviously were not careful to praise and worship God under the rain even though they were all drenched to their inner wears.
Pastor Dipo Fisho leading hundreds of souls to Christ
What shall we say but to give all the glory to our God that amidst the heavy downpour of rain, the presence of God manifested physically and granted us mind-blowing harvests of miracles. How do you explain that over 1000 souls got saved as they without prompting from anybody obeyed the altar call and came out to receive Jesus Christ as their Lord and personal saviour? These souls stayed throughout the rain and were not even angry with the church nor with the brethren that invited them rather they participated as if they were already members of Christ Embassy. It is the Lord’s doing and it’s marvellous in our eyes.
Remarkably, every single person that accepted Christ as his/her Lord and saviour at the crusade went home with a brand new copy of the Rhapsody Bible as promised by the Zonal Pastor of Christ Embassy Abuja Virtual Zone, Pastor Dipo Fisho.
The healing miracles were very outstanding also. Diverse illnesses were healed. The very remarkable thing about the scores of healing miracles recorded at the event was that all the healing miracles pronounced by the Zonal Pastor as he prayed had tens of people come out as recipient witnesses to testify of receiving their healings as the pastor prayed and made pronouncements.
 
Clearly the President of the Believers Loveworld Incorporated aka Christ Embassy Rev Chris Oyakhilome knew what he meant when he categorically stated that being in Christ Embassy is more than being in a church, it’s a vision. At the Gwagwalada Night of Bliss crusade, this assertion was again reaffirmed that Christ Embassy is more than just another church! Glory to God.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment