Share this on WhatsApp
Solid Minerals Minister Kayode Fayemi declared on Saturday his intention to run for Ekiti governorship in July 14, telling the crowds of his supporters he has an unfinished business in the government house.
Fayemi becomes one of the 37 aspirants gunning for the APC ticket in the party’s primary to be conducted soon.
The former governor said the PDP should expect another “free and fair” election like the one that brought incumbent Gov. Ayo Fayose in June 2014.
The June 2014 was marred with malpractices allegedly spearheaded by members of former President Goodluck Jonathan and the military.
Fayose was said ti have received about N2 billion from the office of ex-NSA Sambo Dasuki to prosecute the election he won with a landslide.
The governor has since been under probe for his complicity in the $2.1 billion arms fund Dasuki diverted to fund the PDP elections in 2015.
But Fayose has been enjoying immunity which expires in July when his tenure will be over.
“We will ensure he ends up in jail. That’s the least that can happen to him. It’s time to tighten our belts,” said Fayemi.
“They said the June 21 governorship poll is free, fair and credible, so that of July 14 will be free, fair and transparent as well. They will accuse us of so many things. They will accuse us of using federal might, but we will not care.
“They have been saying we want to use federal might, whether it is bottom power, middle level or top power all I know is power belongs to God and he gives it to whoever he gives.”
His declaration caused a gridlock in the state capital.
And it was about the biggest of the declaration rallies by  the aspirants in the APC.
Also addressing party leaders and supporters, Fayemi said the APC would work tirelessly to dethrone the PDP in the state.
“We will use local, state and federal power to take over Ekiti from a rapacious and government being run by brigand in Ekiti,” he said.
According to him, Ekiti has become a laughing stock across Nigeria.
“Those of us who travelled out of Ekiti, we are being insulted, assaulted and mocked on a daily basis asking why Ekiti they thought were well read, refined and exposed could make a character like Ayodele Fayose as their governor,”he said.
“That is why it is important for us to reclaim our land and restore our values.”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment