Share this on WhatsApp




One of the recent Big Brother tasks for the housemates was to redecorate their rooms to their taste filling it with memories from an ideal home. Big Brother also said the housemates were also free to make graffiti on the walls if any of the housemates wished.
Tobi and Miracle surprisingly showed that they are good painters, their graffiti was so perfect that fans were awed by their talents.
A fan of Miracle identified as @realgenie has said that Miracle is naturally a painter and maybe he has followed another career because he had the feeling painting wasn’t worth it. He continued in his post, if he had being guided properly he will make a good artist. He wrote: “Most people went to school for their parents; studied a course they had no interest in. Graduated and dumped the certificate for their parents. The world would be a better place if all children are guided base on their passion just as Captain Miracle #BBNaija”.
Tobi’s paintings were good as well. It captured a well detailed background of the African community. Many viewers of the show have alleged that Tobi drew an image of his girlfriend Regina as their is a similarity between the painting and a picture of her .
Big Brother Naija, formerly known as Big Brother Nigeria, is a reality TV show based on the Big Brother TV series in which 12 contestants live in an isolated house and compete for a large cash prize worth $100000 at the end of the show by avoiding being evicted by viewers. The first season of the show first aired on DStv Channel 37 from March 5 to June 4, 2006. The voting results are verified by the auditing company of Alexander-Forbes.
The first season of the show first aired on DStv Channel 37 from March 5 to June 4, 2006. In a twist to the game, two new contestants were introduced on Day 23, much to the excitement of the remaining house mates.
Ebuka, the most popular house mate for several weeks into the show and widely believed to emerge winner was the seventh house mate to be evicted; many viewers blame the Joe’s Fan Club (JFC) for his eviction. Joe himself was soon evicted from the show.
Big Brother added another twist to the game on day 79 by cancelling the day’s scheduled nominations and making the house mates believe they will instead be evicted based on their performances on assigned tasks while in reality no more evictions were held and viewers began voting for the winner who turned out to be 26-year-old Katung Aduwak.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment