Share this on WhatsApp
By Odunewu Segun

Nine Federal lawmakers have died in the last three years, with three given up the ghost in the last three months. The latest was Mustapha Bukar, a Senator representing Katsina who died on Wednesday.

An analysis shows that most of the lawmakers died in their 50s, with only three being above 60. Curiously, too, none of them died from accidents, violence or disasters. All deaths were medically related, some coming “after protracted illness”.

It started with Ahmed Zanna, 59, of the APC who died of Terminal ailment in June, 2015. Isiaka Adeleke, also of the APC followed suit in April, 2017. The APC Senator from Osun, died at Biket Hospital in Oshogbo after suffering a heart attack. He died at 62.

Ali Wakili, Senator representing Bauch South Senatorial district joined the list a day after attending the Kano wedding of the daughter of Aliko Dangote on March 16, 2018.

The 58-year old lawmaker was said to have slumped at his Gwarimpa residence in Abuja, the nation’s capital.

Mustapha Bukar, also of the APC, is the latest to enter the fray of the departed. The 63-year-old Senator representing Katsina north died at about 10am on Wednesday after a brief illness.

In the lower chamber, Musa Baba-Onwana, represented Nasarawa/Toto federal constituency of Nasarawa state, on the platform of the APC died on March 17, 2016 at the age of 50. The cause of his death was unknown.

Elijah Adewale, lawmaker representing Ifako Ijaiye constituency of Lagos state, died months later. He was said to have slumped and died at the early hours of Thursday, July 21, 2016 in his house in Abuja.

The 65-year-old lawmaker, who was reported to have attended the caucus meeting of the House of Representatives in the evening of the previous day, died very early on Thursday morning, the following day.

Bello Sani of the APC, representing Mashi/Dvisi federal constituency of Katsina state, passed away on February 15, 2017 at the age of 51.5.

Abdullahj Wammako, also of the APC was a member of the House of Representatives from Sokoto state. He died at an Abuja hospital on July 14, 2017 after a brief illness.

The deceased 50-year-old lawmaker was a younger brother to Aliyu Wammako, former governor of Sokoto state.

Abubakar Adamu, an aide to the late lawmaker, said his principal had suffered protracted illness for several months leading to his death.

Umar Buba Jibril, the latest died on Friday, March 30, 2018. The 58-year old former Deputy Majority leader and lawmaker representing Lokoja/Kogi federal constituency in the House of Representatives, died of ‘a long protracted illness’.

In all, four senators and five reps have died in this dispensation.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment