Share this on WhatsApp







Following his friend advice, a 20-year-old man hewed to death a couple at the Ijako area of Sango Otta, Ogun State on Saturday.

The victims are Jacinta, 18, wife to Azuibike Okoro, 34, who was brother to Owudili Okoro, the suspect.

Okwudili was later arrested by policemen attached to the Sango Division while his accomplice escaped.

Azuibike was eating with his wife on Saturday when Okwudili and Kenneth, armed with cutlasses, descended on the couple, and slashed them all the way till they were dead.

It was while the assailants were on their way out of the apartment that neighbours who were alerted with the couple’s shout grabbed Okwudili as Kenneth escaped.

The suspect said his friend advised him to kill his brother  because of the elder brother’s irresponsibility.

“My brother refused to pay me after serving him for three years. At the end of my apprenticeship, he was supposed to pay me N1.2 million to set up my own business, but he has not done so for close to a year,’ said Okwudili.

According to him, when itb was obvious Okoro did not want to pay him, he told Kenneth, who suggested they should kill him.

“So on Saturday, we bought two cutlasses. We sharpened them for over one hour.

“We then went to my brother’s house. Immediately we entered, we saw him eating with his wife. While Kenneth faced his wife, I faced my brother. We cut them with the cutlass until they could not shout.”

Ogun State Police PRO Assistant Superintendent Abimbola Oyeyemi confirmed the incident, adding  the corpses have been deposited at the Otta General Hospital mortuary for post-mortems.

Commissioner of Police Amed Iliyasu has also directed that the suspect be transferred to the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, SCIID, for investigation.

“The CP equally directed that the fleeing accomplice be hunted for and brought to book within the shortest possible time,’ the PRO added.

















Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment