Share this on WhatsApp

Following IGP Ibrahim Idris’s directive to hunt down the perpetrators of the recent Offa bank robbery in Kwara, the police investigative team deployed has arrested nine suspects believed to have been directly involved in the heist.
A statement from the Force Headquarters, Abuja, said the police team engaged in raiding of flashpoints and hideouts in the area, gathering intelligence, and building confidence.
This led to the arrest of the suspects on April 11.
“Some of the arrests also involved serious exchange of gun fire between the Police and the suspects in their various hideouts,” PPRO Jimoh Moshood said.
Those suspects arrested have admitted to various criminal roles they played in the banks robbery attacks and are also assisting Police investigation into the incident.
The suspects’ ages range between 18 and 39, all males, mostly ex-cons, and are all living in Offa and Ilorin except one Deltan arrested in Lagos.
The oldest of these bad boys is Alexander Reuben, 39, a native of Isoko LGA, Delta, and an ex-con from whom GMPGs, rocket launchers and several rifles were recovered in 2015.
Following him is Kazeem Abdulrasheed, 36, a native of Offa, on whom a victim’s phone was found.
Kayode Opadokun, 35, also a native of Offa, is an ex-con, too. A Barrette pistol and six rounds of live ammunition was recovered from him.
Opadokun admitted to the criminal roles he played in the Offa Banks robbery.
The youngest of them is Aminu Ibrahim, 18, who was arrested in Ilorin.
Adegoke Shogo, 29, was arrested in his home town Offa after the bank robbery and the attack on the police Station. He is drug baron.
According to intelligence gathered from cultivated and reliable informant, Shogo is alleged to be one of the sponsors of the robbery attack and the police Station in Offa.
He has made useful statements to the roles he played in the armed robbery.
Azeez Abdullahi is also a native of Offa. The 27-year-old gang member was carrying a victim’s phone, and SIM Cards were recovered from him.
 Jimoh Isa, 28, hails from Okene, Kogi. He was indicted by technical intelligence generated on the bank robbers.
Three others—Azeez Salawudeen, 20, Adewale Popoola, 22, and Adetoyese Muftau, 23—from whom two phones and SIM cards belonging to victims were recovered have also made confessional statements.
Others are Richard Buba Terry, 23 and Peter Jaba Kuunfa, 25, from whom another Beretta pistol and 14 rounds of live ammunition were recovered.
They have previously been investigated and charged to court for armed robbery and cultism.
Police authorities said all the suspects confessed to the various criminal roles they played in the commission of the crime.
But investigation is being intensified to arrest other suspects still at large and bring them to justice.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment