Share this on WhatsApp
By Ediale Kingsley
Speaking at an international women conference, Kemafo Chikwe, former Nigerian Federal Minister of Aviation and the current National Women Leader of the Progressive Democratic Party (PDP) described Nigerian Politics similar to the take of hard drug.
“I tell women aspiring to become politicians to be very prepared for it. It’s not enough to just desire to hold an elective position you must be ready to walk the talk. Politics is like smoking marijuana” she said.
She went further to breakdown her simile, “you can be called upon at anytime. I remember one night, while I and my husband just got home after a tiring day and I got a call to which I had to respond to. I quickly dashed out and again and my husband had to catch up with me”. 
The event had a lot of other leading women in attendance including a special appearance by the Presidential aspirant, Kingsley Moghalu, former CBN deputy Governor.  At the event Kingsley relayed his vision to actualize policy 50-50 when he becomes President. A legislation that will ensure women have equal participation in the governance of the nation.
Kema Chikwe asked the political aspirant if he would have his running mate as a woman. And there was some hot debate afterwards when Kingsley Moghalu said it was too early to make such promises. He however promised to give it a consideration. 
The Circle, hosted by Ivie Okonofua is a program of The Women International also treated societal issues that affect the Nigerian woman.
Kema became involved in a number of non-governmental organisations, first entering politics in the second republic. Her sympathies were for the National Party of Nigeria, NPN. She later cast her political lot with the NRC, UNCP and now PDP. She was appointed Minister of Transport, and then of Aviation by President Olusegun Obasanjo, holding office until May 2003. She later went on to run for the Governor of Imo state. In 2009 she became the Nigerian ambassador to Ireland.
She is also the mother of Nigerian rapper Naeto C.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment