Share this on WhatsApp



Leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Osun State have iisued former deputy governor of the state, Iyiola Omisore a 72-hour ultimatum to apologise for allegedly supervising the burning of the party’s flags in Osogbo last Thursday.
The leaders on Friday threatened to initiate disciplinary actions against Omisore if he does not apologise for the alleged act.
Some aggrieved members of the PDP had burnt the party’s flag at the factional State Secretariat in Ogo-Oluwa Local Government Area last Thursday. They were alleged to be loyalists of the former deputy governor of the Sate, Iyiola Omisore.
Spokesperson of the State PDP leaders, Tajudeen Adeyemi, was gathered to have said last Friday that they were shocked, saddened and disappointed at the development.
The leaders, however, jointly issued the 72-hour ultimatum to the former governor, saying no one is above the interest and ambition of the party.
The State Party leaders had declared: “That Otunba Iyiola Omisore must within the next 72 hours condemn the barbaric action of the hoodlums who desecrated the PDP flag in his office yesterday and tender an unreserved apology to the leadership of the party for the unacceptable conduct.
“That Otunba Omisore must unequivocally state his stance on the continued membership of the party or otherwise rather in view of the conflicting statements emanating from his aides and confidants in the last 24 hours.
“That in the event of Otunba Omisore choosing to remain in the PDP, he must within the same 72 hours withdraw all court cases instituted by him through proxies and explore the internal mechanism in the party to resolve any grievances he has.
“That in the event of a failure of Otunba Omisore to do the above, we call the leadership of the party at all levels to take appropriate disciplinary action against him in order to show that no single individuals inordinate ambition is above the larger interest of the party.”
The state PDP leaders’ forum was gathered to include former members of the National Assembly, ex-members of the Osun State House of Assembly, ex-commissioners, ex-local government chairpersons and vice-chairpersons and councillors, as well as other government officials.
The forum also tendered an apology to the National Chairman of the PDP, Uche Secondus, for the misconduct.
They assured that the burning of the party’s flag does not in any way represent the views and aspirations of the hundreds of thousands of PDP members in Osun State.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment