Share this on WhatsApp

A retired Chief Superintendent of Police, David Agholor has reportedly shot himself dead at his residence in Olaogun area of Ijoko, Ogun State.

Agholor, who was the former officer-in-charge of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, Enugu state police command shot himself in the head. He was said to have gone to the back of one of the buildings and shot himself in the head.

Sources close to the deceased family said Agholor had called his eldest daughter last Thursday, April 12, and handed over the keys to his two houses to her.

One of the sources also said that the deceased’s family members had noticed that he was behaving strangely a day to the incident. The source said Agholor insisted that nothing was wrong with him when he was questioned.

”He started behaving unusually on Wednesday evening. When they asked him what was wrong with him, he said he was okay. When he woke up on Thursday, he went to his wife’s bedroom to greet her.

”Afterwards, he had a bath and dressed up. He looked corporate. They asked him where he was going to, but he did not talk. He called his first daughter and handed over the keys to his houses to her. He has two houses on a plot of land. He and his family members lived in one of the houses.
 
Another source said Agholor had received some strange telephone calls two days before the incident, adding that the killing had thrown the family into grief.

”He was a retired police officer and a former OC SARS, Enugu state police command. I learnt that he had received some strange calls before that Wednesday when his behaviour changed. It was very pathetic.

The police public relations officer in Ogun state Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the killing himself.

”The scene of the incident was visited and photographed by policemen. It is a case of killing and the command is investigating to know what made him to take that decision. He was a former OC SARS in Enugu.”

He said the corpse of the retired officer had been deposited in a morgue, adding that investigations had commenced to determine the circumstances that led to the incident.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment