Share this on WhatsApp



Martins Usule headed in a late winner as Katsina United beat Rivers United 2-1 in an exciting Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) contest decided on Sunday.
Usule carved out space to head home a bobbling ball on the near post to break down a resolute Rivers United side that for long stages, looked full value for a well-deserved point at a rocking Muhhamadu Dikko (Karkanda) Stadium, Katsina.
The hosts started on the front foot and could have easily put the game to bed in a frenetic opening 15 minutes.
Obinna Eleje opened the scoring in the sixth minute with a cracking effort that flew in off the post sending the home faithful into fits of euphoria.
The ‘Changi Boys’ almost doubled the lead three minutes later but Eleje somehow missed an open goal from two metres out.
It was an unforgivable miss that the hosts were made to rue as the ‘Pride of Rivers’ got back on level terms seconds later.
Emeka Ogbugh plundered the strike and it was a goal of the very highest quality which flew into the corner despite the best efforts of the Katsina United goalkeeper, Danjuma Paul.
The hosts then stepped on the accelerator in search of the second goal but the Rivers United goalkeeper, Emeka Nwabulu was in inspired form as he foiled efforts from Usule, Eleje and Ashadi in a first half of very high quality.
It wasn’t all about the hosts though as the visitors also had their moments in the first period.
Bakari Bamba was denied his second goal of the season by Danjuma in the 33rd minute as his snap shot from a tight angle was spectacularly pushed away for a corner with the visiting bench prematurely celebrating what they felt was a certain goal.
It the first half ebbed and flowed, the second didn’t quite match it in entertainment value.
It was however a compelling stanza which was dominated for large parts by the hosts who kept probing for the winner.
Joshua Agboola thought he had scored in the 56th minute but Olalekan Gabriel produced a last ditch header to give away a corner.
Five minutes later, Nwabulu produced a contender for save of the season, diving to his right to push away Agboola’s free kick from the edge of the Rivers United box.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment