Share this on WhatsApp

A professor of Management and Accounting at Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Richard Akindele, is fighting to keep his job and dignity following the leak of a telephone conversation where he demanded for sex from a female student.

In the leaked telephone conversation, Professor Akindele was heard demanding for five rounds of sex to award the lady a pass mark in a course she failed.

Although, National Daily could not independently verify if the voice is that of Akindele, but it was able to establish that a professor bears that name in OAU.

In the conversation recorded by the female student, the man was heard demanding five rounds of sex.

Having exchanged pleasantries, the lady proceeded to tell the lecturer that she couldn’t speak with him properly the previous day because she was with her boyfriend and she didn’t want him to hear anything.

In the audio, the professor was heard saying he meant what he said, and that if the female student don’t trust him, she should forget it.

“If I am not interested in doing it, I won’t give you audience in the first instance. The other person has come and I told her straight away because there is nothing I can do to bail that person out and her mark is even better than your own. The person scored 39 while your own is 33. Only two people failed the course so what else do you want me to do. You can see it anytime you come, we are at Moro doing exam, we are doing MBA executive exam. They are just starting. I will finish by 4:30 and maybe 5, I should be in the office. If you are ready, come by 5 why did you tell me you were on your period the other time,” the professor said in the recorded conversation.

After the female student confirmed that she was not having her period, professor Akindele demanded that they have the first one that day, and then another the following day.

“Let’s have the first one today and then we will do another one tomorrow. Is our agreement not five times?” he asked in the audio.

Recall that in 2016, the senate mulled a five-year jail term for lecturers sexually exploiting students. The bill, sponsored by Ovie Omo-Agege (Labour-Delta Central) and co-sponsored by 46 other senators, sought to completely prohibit any form of sexual relationship between lecturers and their students.
 




But lecturers kicked against it, describing it as a violation of their rights.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment