Share this on WhatsApp



In order to make military hospital more efficient in service delivery to both military personnel and civilian populace, the Chief of Army Staff, (COAS), Lieutenant General Tukur Yusuf Buratai has commissioned more facilities at the 68 Reference Hospital, Yaba, Lagos.
The COAS was represented by Major General Rasheed Yusuf, the Chief of Policy and Plans, Army Headquarters, Abuja.
It was learnt that the old dilapidated structures have been remodelled, redesigned and reequipped with modern facilities.
The projects executed in phase 2 included the renovation and reequipped male and female surgical wards, the specialist clinic for surgery, medicine and psychiatry in addition to a clinic and an isolation ward dedicated for the treatment of tuberculosis (DOTS Centre).
It was further gathered that the phase 1 of the project was inaugurated in 2017 by the Army Chief.
Other facilities provided included new beds, mattresses, furniture, air conditioning, television and intercom telephone lines.
Major General Rasheed Yusuf, explained that the overall aim of the intervention projects was to ensure that facilities are friendly and receptive to both military and civilian clients.
As a result, he pointed out that the Nigerian Army has commissioned 72 medical doctors to man the facilities noting that ‘the staff must make judicious use of the facilities and optimally maintained.”
Responding, the Corp Commander Medical, Major General Ikechukwu Okeke expressed gratitude for the intervention projects of the Chief of Army Staff which spread across formations and units in Nigerian army particularly the 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital, Kaduna.
In another development, the COAS  also commissioned the remodelled Nigerian Army College of Logistics (NACOL) student’s hostel located at the Bonny Cantonment.
The Commandant of the College, Major General Richard Duru while thanking the Chief of Army Staff for his commitment for infrastructural rehabilitation in all Nigerian Army schools as well as his support for enhanced capacity in the Nigerian Army through improved training in logistics, addition that the improved facilities at the student’s hostel would enhance their academic performance.
He observed that the College has been operating from temporary sites since inception which has imposed a lot of constraints, limited the expansion and full development of the College.
The COAS said, “training is a key part of military profession hence the need to focus on professional training and capacity building of its personnel in diverse environments to enhance operational efficiency.
He, therefore, pledged his commitment to the development and eventual relocation of the College to its permanent site.
The newly renovated structure is a modern palatial edifice with 36 standard en-suite rooms, two executive suites, officers mess, a kitchen/catering facility, mini industrial water treatment plant, generators and good landscaping.
In addition is a water front sit-out lounge for their relaxation.  All the rooms, kitchen, dining facility, officers’ mess, reception lounge and the sit-out lounge have been lavishly furnished.
Also commissioned at the An Barracks, Yaba is the newly renovated residential accommodation of the Commandant of the College.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment