Share this on WhatsApp

President Muhammadu Buhari may have tacitly doused the tension in the ruling All Progressive Congress when he announced on Monday that embattled Chairman of the party, Chief John Oyegun and other members of the Exco could seek re-election if they so much desired.

In a statement delivered at the National Executive Council closed-door meeting on Monday where he declared his intention to seek reelection, Buhari said with the present state of the party and based on the report submitted by the Technical Committee, It is important for the party to focus on how to move the party forward by avoiding actions detrimental to the interest of the party.

“Upon my review of the Report, my position is to ensure that the party tows the path of unity, legality and cohesion and not that of division.

“Therefore, I am stressing that we should strengthen our internal democracy by organising the Party’s Congresses and Convention where election of National Executive Committee members would be held. This will automatically end the cases filed by members seeking orders of Court compelling the party to hold its Congresses.

“I also believe that the current executives should be free to vie for elective positions in the party if they so wish as permitted by our Party constitution.
 
“However, considering the provision of Article 31(1)(iii) of the APC Constitution which requires any serving officer desirous of seeking re-election to resign from office 30 days before election, I am not sure of the practicality of present serving officers’ ability to meet this condition.

President Buhari also said the party may consider granting waivers to party executives at all levels so that they are not disenfranchised from participating in the elections should they wish to do so, provided this does not violate our rules.

He said necessary waiver(s) should also be extended to executives at the Ward level whose tenures may have elapsed, and indeed to anyone knocking at the party’s doors from other political parties. “This is in the spirit of the Right to Freedom of Association guaranteed by the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended),” he said.

“Just like our party symbol, “the Broom,” which typifies strength in unity, let us strive to remain united in our purpose. Victory is sure by the Grace of God, and together we must continue to sanitize Nigeria’s political environment.”




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment