Share this on WhatsApp



The Nigeria Police, on Tuesday, commenced interrogation of embattled Senator Dino Melaye on criminal indictments against him in cases of criminal conspiracy and unlawful possession of prohibited firearms, kidnapping, armed robbery, murder, political thuggery and other violent crimes in Kogi State. The Senator, after weeks of evading invitation by the Nigeria Police, could not escape Police surveillance on his residence, forcing him to surrender to the Policeon Tuesday, and subsequently arrested.
The Senator had on Monday declared himself arrested but the Immigration Service later explained that the Senator was only stopped on routine check at the Airport on his way to Morocco and was alter released.
Meanwhile, SP Aremu Adeniran, Deputy Force Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, Abuja, in a statement on Tuesday, narrated that working on actionable intelligence, the Kogi State Police Command and Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad trailed and arrested two suspects Kabiru Saidu a.k.a Osama “31 years” and Nuhu Salisu a.k.a Small “25 years” on the 19th January, 2018 at Ogojueje in Dekina Local Government Area of Kogi State. He noted that during investigation, they confessed to the various criminal roles they played in the commission of several kidnappings and armed robbery in different towns across Kogi State and its environs for which they have been on the wanted list of the Police for more than two years now.
SP Adeniran further narrated that the gang leader, Kabiru Saidu  a.k.a Osama  revealed that he and his gang have been working as Political Thug for one Alhaji Mohammed Audu, a Politician in the state and that Alhaji Mohammed Audu invited him to Abuja and introduced him to Senator Dino Melaye and they met on Airport Road, Abuja, inside Senator Dino Melaye’s Car in the month of December, 2017.
He further revealed that Senator Dino Melaye handed over a bag containing one AK47 rifle, two Pump Action guns and the sum of N430, 000.00 to share with his boys.
The Police spokesman declared: “consequent on this indictment on the Senator, The Nigeria Police sent a letter of investigation activities/invitation dated and acknowledged on 2nd March, 2018, addressed to the Senate President, Federal Republic of Nigeria, informing and requesting him to release Senator Dino Melaye to report to the Police on the 7th March, 2018, to answer to criminal offences of Conspiracy and Unlawful Possession of Prohibited Firearms leveled against him”
He maintained: “And another separate letter was equally written in this regard. This was to enable the Police Investigation Team carryout a discreet and thorough investigation into the case. But Senator Dino Melaye refused to honour the Police invitations.”
According to the DFPRO, “Sequel to his refusal to honour Police invitations, he was, therefore, watch listed through the Nigeria Police INTERPOL Office and in compliance to the INTERPOL’s “Watch List”, the officers of the Nigerian Immigration Service intercepted and collected his International Passport from him at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. While this was on, he snatched the Passport from the officers at the Airport and bolted away to his house.”
“In furtherance to this, the Police obtained a warrant of arrest and trailed him to his house at Maitama, Abuja, and cordon off the place. He, however, surrendered himself to the Police this morning, 24th April, 2018, for investigation on the allegations against him,” SP Adeniran declared.
He assured that the Nigeria Police will continue to sustain the rule of law and maintain law and order throughout the Country. 


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment