Share this on WhatsApp

The new Commander, 9 Brigade, Nigerian Army,  Ikeja Cantonment, Brigadier General Moundhey Ali has called on soldiers to be guided by existing laws and operate within the ambits of the law and avoid any act that would tarnish the image of the force.

He, however, warned them against compromising security issues reiterating that all hands must be on deck to move 9 Brigade forward and the security of Lagos state in particular.

Gen Ali, who assumed duty as the New Commander, 9 Brigade took over from his predecessor, Brig Gen Elias Attu, who has been redeployed to the Nigerian Army Resource Centre, Abuja as Deputy Director.

Gen Ali, also charged soldiers of the brigade to uphold ethics of their profession and remain loyal to the nation, promising to provide basic necessities needed for effective conduct of their duties.

Events marking the change of baton between the two senior officers commenced with introductory visit to security stakeholders in Lagos and environs.

There were also the endorsement of handing and taking over notes, change of the command flag and decoration of General Ali with the 9 Brigade insignia by the out gone Commander.

Addressing Officers and men shortly after taking over command, General Ali thanked them for their selfless service so far exhibited towards the realization of the commands various tasks.

He further noted that much is still desired of them considering the peculiarity and complexity of Lagos state with regards to its security challenges and called for extra vigilance.

Brig Gen Ali started his military career as a cadet of 38 regular course Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA) and was commissioned into the corps of Infantry.

As a seasoned infantry officer, he attended many courses ranging from young officer course, middle cadre and senior officers courses. He also attended some operational and strategic courses in Nigeria and abroad.

Gen Ali is a recipient of the Chief of Army staff commendation Award and a Member of the National Institute.

The New Brigade Commander has served the Nigerian Army in various capacity and has held staff, instructional and command appointment.

Prior to his appointment as 9 Brigade Commander, he was the pioneer Commandant of the Nigerian Army Special Force School Buni Yadi, Yobe State.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment