Share this on WhatsApp


The Federal Government on Sunday released another list of alleged looters despite the threat of instituting legal action against Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, over the first list by the Peoples’ Democratic Party.

It would be recalled that last week, Lai Mohammed had released a list of alleged looters containing five names. The five people were all PDP members.

After the list was made public, Uche Secondus, Chairman of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), gave Mohammed 48 hours to withdraw it and tender an apology.

But on Sunday, Mohammed released another list which had 23 names, including Femi Fani-Kayode, former minister of aviation, and three PDP senators.

The senators are Stella Oduah from Anambra, Jonah Jang from Plateau and Peter Nwaboishi from Delta.

Mohammed said the list released earlier was based on verifiable facts, adding that those complaining that it was too short did not understand that the list was a teaser.

“At the press conference where the list was released, I did say it was a tip of the iceberg. Apparently, this does not mean anything to people whose style is to comment on issues they barely understand, or just to shoot down anything coming from the government,” he said,
 
“What was the PDP expecting when it challenged the FG to name the looters of the public treasury under the party’s watch? Did the PDP actually believe that the massive looting under its watch was a joke? Did they think it is April fool?”

The minister said the PDP’s reaction to the looters’ list has shown that its recent apology is an election-induced act, contrived to deceive unsuspecting Nigerians to vote for the party in the 2019 general election.

“The hysterical and panicky reaction from the PDP has shown that the party is not at all sincere about its choreographed apology. Were it not the case, the party would have followed in the footsteps of one of its leaders, Senator Ibrahim Mantu, who simply owned up to his role in the party’s rigging in the past elections and said he had turned a new leaf.

 



Below are the details of the new list:




NUMBER


NAME


ALLEGATIONS






1


Former NSA, Sambo Dasuki


$2.1billion military equipmentscandalA total of N126 billion, over $1.5 billion and 5.5 millionBritish Pounds was embezzled through his office




2


Former petroleum resources minister, Dieziani Alison-Madukwe


N23 billion is alleged to have been embezzled




3


Rtd. Lt.-Gen. Kenneth Minimah


N13.9 billion. N4.8 billionrecovered by EFCC in cash and property




4


Lt.-Gen. Azubuike Ihejirika


N4.5 billion. N29m recovered by the EFCC so far




5


Alex Barde, former chief of defence staff


N8 billion, and EFCC recovered almost N4 billion in cash and property




6


Inde Dikko, former CG Customs


N40 billion, and N1.1 billion in cash recovered in cash and choice properties




7


Air Marshal Adesola Amosun


N21.4 billion. N2.8 billion recovered in cash
28 properties and 3 vehicles also recovered




8


Bala Mohammed,  former FCT minister


N5 billion. Interim forfeiture order on some property secured




9


Senator Stella Oduah


N9.8 billion
Interim forfeiture order on some property secured




10


Former Niger State governor, Babangida Aliyu


N1.6 billion – from NSA




11


Former Plateau State governor, Senator Jonah Jang


N12.5 billion




12


Bashir Yuguda, former minister of state for finance


N1.5 billion
$829,800 recovered




13


Senator Peter Nwaboshi


N1.5 billion




14


Former NSA Dasuki’s aide, Aliyu Usman


N512 million




15


Former NSA Dasuki’s PA, Ahmad Idris


N1.5 billion




16


Former Oyo governor, Rasheed Ladoja


N500 million




17


Tom Ikimi


N300 million




18


Femi Fani-Kayode


N866 million




19


Former PPS to President Goodluck, Hassan Tukur


$1.7 million




20


Nenadi Usman


N1.5 billion




21


Benedicta Iroha


N1.7 billion




22


Close ally of former NSA Dasuki, Aliyu Usman Jawaz


N882 million




23


Godknows Igali


Over N7 billion










Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment