Share this on WhatsApp



The Court of appeal sitting in Ado Ekiti has allowed the appeal filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission against the judgment of Justice Taiwo. O Taiwo of the Federal High Court, Ado Ekiti division.
Recalled that upon the judgment of the lower court, the governor withdrew the sum of N5m and transferred the sum of N75n to his lawyer, Mike Ozekhome.
The lead judge to the three-man appeal court panel, Honourable Justice J.S Ikeyegha directed the freezing of the account of Fayose forthwith.
Meanwhile, Governor Fayose has promised to vacate Ekiti state on the day fixed for governorship primaries of PDP.
He has also promised to stay away from the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primaries of Ekiti state slated for May 8, so as to avoid making other contestants uncomfortable or intimidated by his presence.
Fayose, who is supporting his deputy, Kolapo Olusola, said he doesn’t have to be present at the primaries for his preferred candidate to emerge winner.
The governor, who made this statement on Wednesday while welcoming the National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, former Senate president, David Mark, said “If other aspirants are not comfortable with my presence on the day of the primary, I am ready to vacate the state if that will usher the needed peace.”
Secondus while addressing those present assured them that the election will be free and fair. He said: “I assure you once again, there will be transparency and the process would not cheat anybody. I urge you to join the leaders to work together to ensure free and fair transparent primaries, eminent Nigerian are conducting the primaries.
“We urge you to remain calm. We also urge INEC and security agents not to be partial but come to defend democracy. Doing that the best if our people will serve the people the best. From here we are moving to other parts of the country for sensitisation.”
Also speaking Senator Mark, who was the chairman of the reconciliation committee, said: “First is that I have been working on bringing peace to Ekiti by reconciling all parties and that has been done very well. I thank you supporters for the peace and agreement to work together.
“Secondly is to assure you that the process leading to the final election of whoever will become PDP candidate in Ekiti for the July poll will be free fair and credible. If we are insisting that INEC must be fair, it means we will have to do so ourselves at the party level. Nobody will write delegates’ names. Everyone will vote for the candidate of his choice.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment