Share this on WhatsApp

The unveiling of the all-new 2018 Kia Rio marked the exciting premiere of the new wave of sub-compact car in Nigeria.

Slightly larger in size over the previous generation, the Rio’s new look is emphasized by the stretched thin and wide tiger nose grille. The vertical side vents and the sporty headlights at the front accentuate its stance, giving it a bolder look. The horizontal styling of the Rio further sends enchanting vibes with its roof seamlessly extending to the rear edge.

The new Rio has arrived in an even more compelling package with enhanced aesthetics and functionality. It has been redesigned for a more dramatic and distinctive look, boasting sleek, straight lines and sophisticated interior.

The 2018 Kia Rio’s pleasing proportions mask its diminutive dimensions, avoiding the vaguely bubble-top look of many compact cars. The car has a higher ground clearance, wider and longer, the wheels have been pushed farther toward the corners, and the windshield has been made more upright.

The inside has also been upgraded and feels very solidly built. The redesigned dash and gauge cluster looks upscale as well, so even though the Rio is a budget-priced car, it doesn’t feel cheap.

Additional sound insulation, a redesigned suspension, and revised steering help, too, making the new Rio feel buttoned-down and solid on the road.

The intelligently designed dashboard and center console, along with a windshield that has less rake, help the Rio feel surprisingly roomy on the inside. Rear-seat headroom is another surprise, as a 6-foot passenger sits upright comfortably. Rear legroom has grown 2 inches from the previous model. The front seats are comfortable, accommodating and wide enough to give most drivers plenty of breathing room.

The Rio is powered by a naturally aspirated 1.4-liter gasoline direct-injected four-cylinder engine pumping out Max. Power (ps/rpm) 100/6,000 and 123/6,300 Max. Torque (kg·m/rpm) with a six-speed automatic transmission, driving the front wheels.
For a more engaging driving experience, the latest Rio is equipped with a 1.4-liter four-cylinder engine, improving the driving dynamics as well as fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions over the outgoing Rio.

Rio’s solid structure makes use of advanced high-strength steel to increase durability and torsional stiffness for improved handling and ride quality as well as collision protection.

And for the first time, the Rio offers optional Autonomous Emergency Braking (AEB), a system that detects obstacles and automatically applies the brakes to avoid accidents. Standard safety features include airbags, side-impact door beams, a four-wheel Anti-lock Brake System (ABS) and Hill-start Assist Control (HAC).

“All in all, the 2018 all-new Rio is a most reliable driving companion, especially if you are looking for a versatile subcompact with a well-tuned combination of style, safety, and affordability,” said Debanja Paul, assistant vice president of sales, Kia Motors Nigeria.
 
 The Kia Rio has been setting the Nigerian market on fire recently, having outsold other models in its segment for over a decade and remains Kia’s best-selling car internationally. That means the highly sophisticated Rio carries a lot of big expectations, and the newly redesigned version made it clear how seriously our global engineers took the task of updating the all-new Kia Rio” said Olawale Jimoh, Marketing Manager, Kia Motors Nigeria.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment