Share this on WhatsApp

how he moved from being a Nokia Ambassador to Content Development Consultant




Chukwuebuka Anyaduba is from Onitsha, Anambra State, born on March 27th, 1984. Had his primary and secondary school in Anambra State but then moved to Abuja where he obtained an LLB in Law from University of Abuja, Gwagwalada. His mum is a teacher so she made sure he got the best in terms of Secondary and Primary education which to her is the best foundation any parent could give their child. His dad was a Lawyer and that kind of influenced his choice of study in the University. ‘You know parents always want their kids to take after them’ he told Ediale Kingsley.
 What do you do for a living?
I am the Project Director for Aim Higher Africa, an NGO founded by Forbes Africa Head of Digital Partnerships, Peace Hyde, dedicated to building a generation of young leaders through the power of education and entrepreneurship in Africa. I am also the Executive Director of TOG Media, a content development, Events and PR consultant. I am also an SDG and Road Safety Advocate and the founder of Safecross Campaign and Road Safety Forum. I used to be a Nollywood actor but got busy and stopped acting. I also have the passion for event planning.
Take us through the journey of your rise to Fame?
Well, hmmm well, I have to say that it started from the University. I was the editor in chief of a campus magazine (Laugh Out Loud Magazine) so we had a database of students and were always contacted for campus gigs by different brands. At my 300 level, I became a Nokia Brand Ambassador, organized a lot of events within and outside the campus. When I graduated I auditioned for a Business reality show, The Next Titan and eventually made it to the house amongst the 16 contestants. I was evicted from the house on the 10th week. I was on TV and started loving the idea, so I was invited for the tinsel audition which I went and eventually got a role for another movie project by MNET then later I featured on Tinsel. Since then I have done quite a number of movies which include Protégé (my first movie), Anita, Behind the Smile, My family my reality, Jenifa’s Diary, Dagger, Alter Ego, Side Effects (Produced by me), those are the popular ones. But what really gave me much popularity was Jenifa’s Diary because it was really funny and a lot of people loved it.
Of all the things you do, which tops it for you in terms of fulfillment?
It has to be my job as a Project Director. But I have the passion for Event planning and Advocacy as well.
Why did you develop the passion for Road Safety and SDG?
So a few years ago, I was in Dubai for a brief vacation, I realized that when vehicles get to a pedestrian lane, they stop to give way for pedestrians, they slow down, whether or not there is someone standing by the lane. In Nigeria, I found out that most road users have little or no knowledge of the pedestrian lanes. So I started the road safety awareness with the SAFECROSS campaign to create awareness on the pedestrian crossing. Road Safety is a target under one of the Goals precisely under Goal 11 of the Sustainable development Goals.
How did you run this Campaign?
I Partnered with Federal Road Safety Corp, Lagos Sector Command and the United Nations Information Centre (UNIC). We also had volunteers who helped in implementing the campaign as well as few sponsors who believed in the cause. My team and I went to 10 Secondary and primary schools in Lagos to create awareness on the use of the pedestrian crossing lanes, we had social media engagement activities with hashtags, we constructed fresh pedestrian lanes and repainted old ones, we went on radio to create awareness. We also had a big banner that celebrities and the FRSC officials endorsed, pledging to observe the pedestrian lanes. It was a week-long activity during the UN Road safety week. In continuation of the campaign, I founded the first ROAD SAFETY FORUM in Nigeria and we organized it in partnership with FRSC sponsored by The Godfathers Foundation.
What other areas of your career are you looking to explore?
Errrrmm I would love to go back to school to do a course on conflict resolution. I want to be a negotiator. 
What has been a very high point in your life?
When I was invited to the State House Abuja to perform a Monologue for the Vice President of Nigeria Prof. Yemi Osinbajo on his exclusive birthday party and when the SAFECROSS Campaign was featured on the official website of the United Nations Road Safety Week.
What are your plans for the future?
I plan to adapt some developmental practices applicable in Europe to Africa in relation to Advocacy. I also plan to set up an Exchange platform between young entrepreneurs in Africa and their counterparts in Europe and America where ideas and funds could be accessed.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment