Share this on WhatsApp
In 2008, China set aside $30million (£22million) for a controversial project that involved using geoengineering to make it rain and clear the skies ahead of the 2008 Olympics.

And now, conspiracy theorists believe their government is testing the same technology as a futuristic weapon.

The video, captured from a passenger plane, shows how the strange event unfolded after commuters spotted something mysterious occurring below their flight.

It reveals orange lights darting through the clouds below them.

They then completely disappear, as the person behind the camera attempts to capture them again by zooming in.

“That is some kind of weapon testing”

The clip was recorded during a flight over China on April 12, but has gained popularity after being shared on YouTube yesterday.

Since then, it has racked up more than 50,000 hits and viewers were quick to speculate what it could be.

One comment read: “At first I thought it was the reflection on the sea – but it is in the clouds – not normal.”

Another added: “That is the trash they are spraying us with from the chemtrails.”

And a third claimed: “Some kind of plasma entity or HAARP.”

Before someone else added: “That is some kind of weapon testing.”

The chemtrail theory states that the condensation trails left by planes consist of chemical or biological agents.

Supporters of this idea believe it is sprayed deliberately to control and modify the weather.

Some even suggest the High Frequency Active Auroral Research Program (HAARP) between the US Air Force and Navy, was initiated to research the possibility of using these as weapons.

And now, some believe China is also investing time into this same idea to rival the West.

This collection features a series of photographs of some of the most bizarrely shaped clouds which bare uncanny resemblances to everyday things – released for the first time to celebrate the 10 year anniversary of the Cloud Appreciation Society

Only today, another bizarre clip from Brazil seemed to expose the same theory.

And before that, some believed the USAF was also using the weather as a weapon after strange beams of lights were spotted above Texas.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment