Share this on WhatsApp
The People Redemption Party has offered presidential aspirant Omoyele Sowore its presidential ticket for the 2019 contest.

Balarabe Musa, a former governor of Kaduna and chairman of the party, said this on Friday when Sowore visited him in Kaduna.

Musa said his party will settle down for any candidate prepared to take Nigeria out of its socio-economic woes.

“We are inviting you to the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) and by the time you are declaring, I would lead the declaration because we believe in socialist reconstruction of Nigeria, and striking with a leading role in the economy to ensure peace, equality, social justice, and restoring the dignity of Nigeria,” Musa said.

According to him, Nigeria needs a young and vibrant political leader who would match his words with action.

Sowore, a citizen journalist and activist is a loner politically, having no party affiliation or godathers or experience as do other politicians.

The Sahara Reporters publisher, however, believes his network of like minds and coalitions can give him the backwind he needs for the 2019 contest.

The PRP offering him its platform is basically a northern party with little or no affiliation down south where Sowore comes from.

But the 47-year-old said his political campaign to become president would be devoid of ethnicity and religious bias noting that Nigeria is one.

Again the PRP, on its own strength, has never won any elective position so far.

Musa, however, said the party, as always, is willing to join a coalition of political parties to dislodge the incumbent.

“Whenever a political party comes out to change Nigeria alone, we advise the political party to form a coalition of relevant political parties on the basis of minimum programme for Nigeria, covering the national unity, democracy and social-economic development,” the statesman said.

“And that is the minimum condition we require because PRP in its history has never contested an election without coalition in one way or the other as long as our separate existence remains and there is a better alternative.”

The former governor describes  the Olusegun Obasanjo third force as a “kangaroo coalition” of political jesters who have once failed the country.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment