Share this on WhatsApp


More facts weekend, emerged on why the global leaders in environmental rights group campaign, Friends of the Earth (FoE), Netherlands is set to drag oil multinational, the Royal Dutch Shell to court for complications in climate pollution.

The suit is aimed at getting Shell to comply with global climate targets in its activities.

Shell has come under different legal suits over a long period. In 2016, more than 40,000 Nigerians sued the oil producer in a court in the UK demanding that the company cleans up decades of oil spills in their communities.
In January 2018, the City of New York sued the oil producer together with others in a suit seeking to hold them accountable for present and future damage to the city from climate change.

Explaining more on the suit, FoE Netherlands Director, Donald Pols, noted that “Shell is among the ten biggest climate polluters worldwide. It has been known for over 30 years that it is causing dangerous climate change, but continues to extract oil and gas and invests billions in the search and development of new fossil fuels”.

According to the environmental group, the court action is supported by Friends of the Earth International, which campaigns for climate justice for people across the world impacted by dirty energy and climate change.

Karin Nansen, chair of Friends of the Earth International said “This case matters for people everywhere. Shell is doing enormous damage worldwide – climate change and dirty energy have devastating impacts around the world, but especially in the global South. With this lawsuit we have a chance to hold Shell to account”.

Recalls that Shell has come under different legal suits over a long period. In 2016, more than 40,000 Nigerians sued the oil producer in a court in the UK demanding that the company cleans up decades of oil spills in their communities.
In January 2018, the City of New York sued the oil producer together with others in a suit seeking to hold them accountable for present and future damage to the city from climate change.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment