Share this on WhatsApp



Chief Olabode George, former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has fired back at the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, over his comment that Nigerians should reject PDP apology, admonishing him that everything that has a beginning has an end.
Bode George wave off the statement by Tinubu Nigerians should not to listen to the apology of PDP over past mistakes, saying that it is a rubbish statement.
The former PDP Deputy national Chairman told Tinubu that should stop parading himself as god; he cautioned that the APC leader should remember that one day he shall quit the earth like all humans.
George was gathered to have emphasized that Tinubu can control everything but cannot control the day he was born, the tribe in which he was born and the day he will exit the earth.
Bode George was cited to have stated in part: “First of all, let me ask Tinubu, is he God? Or has he gotten the powers of God that he can see the future?
“I think that is a rubbish statement to make from a leader. If that is what he thinks, I think it is a wishful thinking.
“He will soon realise that everything that has a beginning has an end, and that is the power of the Almighty, the One who was, who is and will forever be. There is no human being that lives perpetually.
“There are three things in life you don’t control -the day you were born, the tribe in which you were born (whether you are Chinese, African or American) and the day you will exit.
“That shows you there is a Being and power more than us. So, when people get up and make such statements that Tinubu made, that PDP will never come back to power, that is arrogance being exhibited.
“Let me advise him that we used to say that PDP will rule this country for 60 years. Then we sat back, put everything on auto-pilot and went to sleep.
“Alas, we found ourselves on the deck and that was why in humility, during the last conference held by the party in Abuja, the delivery, the content and performance was the zenith of humility.”


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment