Share this on WhatsApp



“The Circle” powered by The Women International (TWI) is organized by the founder, Chinny Okoye. Her recent outing featured Prof. Kingsley Moghalu and other women of class.  The activities of the day had two talking sessions, cocktail and networking. Dr. Kema Chikwe, who had the programs opening remarks, encouraged the women participants in the event to play active roles in politics.
The first session of the event had  Leslie Okoye, Peace Hyde, Olubusola Adeyemi, Olatorera Oniru on the platform to discuss the topic; ‘What are the challenges of winning as a woman in Nigeria/Africa’.
While Clare Omatseye, Itunu Akinware, Adebisi Lamikanra and Amina Oyagbola handled the ‘What are the possible solutions/remedies of the struggles and challenges of the modern day Nigerian/African woman’ session.
At the center of the event, there was the interaction with the presidential aspirant, Kingsley Moghalu, former CBN deputy Governor.  And the women had a no-holds back moment on the political matters of the nation. They gave their voices and when Moghalu relayed his vision to actualize policy 50-50 when he becomes President. A legislation that will ensure women have equal participation in the governance of the nation. The women took him on, asking if he would make his running mate a woman.
Chinny has been able to successfully bring together women from all walks of life in Nigeria and outside Nigeria online and offline to empower them Financially, Mentally, Spiritually, Physically, and Emotionally.
“Our core objective is to advice women generally in the way it improves their lives. Women have a lot of issues and challenges along different aspect of their lives. Our objective is to provide these supports” she said.
With a lot of dedication, perseverance, hard work and consistency she has been able to achieve a whole lot with TWI. The platform is a little bit over a year old and it has quickly become a house hold name and a source of inspiration to many women. We were able to get a brief profile on her and what prompted her to start this social enterprise.
Chinny Okoye is a Self Improvement and Personal Development platform for women dedicated to helping women from all walks of life build a better future for themselves, their families, and their business by creating events geared towards realizing their full potential both personally and professionally in order to live a purpose driven life. Chinny’s belief in having a wholesome and balanced well-being (Financially, Mentally, physically, emotionally and spiritually) pushed her into starting TWI.
Chinny strongly believes that her calling in life is to make a difference and to impact lives in a positive way. Hence, whatever she does she tends to work towards this goal. Her experience and longing to care and put other people’s needs first continues to inspire and motivate her to endeavor to continuously make a difference in the lives of others, however small it may be.
Chinny is highly experienced in nonprofit management and research focused on women affairs, policies and social development.  She has had some years of experience in working with various organizations both in Nigeria and in the US including the Centre for Women in Politics and Public Policy, Boston Mass, The Consortium on Gender, Security and Human Rights in Boston and The Health Care Federation Of Nigeria (HFN) in Lagos Nigeria to name a few. Her passion has always been to work in a women’s focused organization where she could make a difference in the lives of women.
She wrote her thesis on “violence against women in Nigeria” focusing on the cultural factors that are responsible for violence against women, this led to her dream to move back and gain experience working with organizations in Nigeria pertaining to women and eventually starting her own women focused organization.
Chinny is the CEO of TWI management agency, a sister company to The Women International to help female owned companies to grow and manage their social media communities. She is also a part time makeup artist who loves to make women look good and feel good.
Chinny holds a bachelor’s degree in Public Policy and Philosophy with a focus in women’s studies from the University of Massachusetts Boston.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment