Share this on WhatsApp

REC under threat to either conduct free, fair polls or be dealt with




The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has subtly disqualified 21 political parties from participating in the July 14 governorship election in Ekiti State. The Commission explained that their disqualification was a result of their inability to meet the legal stipulations of political parties qualified for elections in Nigeria.
The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Ekiti, Professor Abduganiy Raji, at a stakeholders meeting in Ado-Ekiti, which included security chiefs in the state led by the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Abdullahi Chafe, chairmen of political parties, journalists, etc., on Thursday, disclosed that 21 of the 42 political parties existing in Ekiti State are qualified to participate in the July 14 governorship election.
The Ekiti REC observed that though INEC received correspondence on existence of 42 political parties in the state but only 21 met the requirements of the laws.
Raji had disclosed that INEC would deploy Information and Communication Technology (ICT) gadgets for the conduct of the election; noting that this would make it difficult for any staff to manipulate the outcome.
Raji further revealed that he has received series of threats from politicians, including some elders in the state, calling him to conduct free, fair and credible elelfction or face the consequences.
“We were made to believe that there were 42 parties in Ekiti, but when I went round, I realized only 21 had full complements of structures that met the requirements of the laws.
“Some were even located in a corner shop where they sell biscuits. We even got another 10 letters from other political parties of recent but we advised them to do the needful.
“We have got 33 notifications for party congresses. But let me tell our parties to always root their correspondence to us through the office of our National Chairman, these are letters we will recognize.”
Raji narrated: “Most of these threats were from elders, alleging that we were one-sided.
“But they have forgotten that there are two sides to a coin, if you don’t want INEC to do some things, you too must be cautious. How would a party go and induce INEC staff? This is unacceptable. 
“We will use over 10,000 youth corps members for this election; can all of them be saints? Some will misbehave but we have to use appropriate way to deal with them.
“Let me assure you this, I have told you that I will abide by the rules and I know my staff will comply with my stand,” the REC had declared.
Raji further urged all the political parties to direct their members to visit all Registration Areas and check their names on the voter registers, so that they can make claims and objections if their names were omitted.
The Commissioner of Police had assured that the security agencies will maintain neutrality by being fair to all the parties.
Chafe appealed to politicians to show maturity in their campaigns and pasting of posters to reduce crises that are daily being reported by political parties.
“ICT deployment by INEC has really helped the electioneering process in Nigeria. It has reduced the incidences of thuggery, ballot stuffing and snatching during elections.
“There are reports that some politicians paste posters at police stations,” Chafe said: “But this issue of posters is becoming too problematic.
“I am still going to hold a meeting with you where you will agree whether you will be using posters or handbills; so, I can instruct my men to arrest and detain whoever breaches the regulation.” The CP declared.
The Chairmen of PDP, Gboyega Oguntuase, Labour Party, Mr. Banji Omotoso, and the APC Publicity Secretary, Hon. Taiwo Olatunbosun, promised to encourage their members to exhibit peaceful conducts during the campaigns and election. 


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment