Share this on WhatsApp

 
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has reiterated the Federal Government’s commitment to rebuilding communities destroyed by the clashes between herdsmen and farmers in some part of the country.

He stated this on Tuesday during the inaugural meeting of the recently composed Governing Council of NEMA at the Presidential Villa, Abuja.
Prof. Osinbajo said, “Mr. President has directed that we do a survey and assessment on the damage done to towns cities, communities that have been affected by violence in some parts of the country, including the farmers-herders clashes. NEMA will play a leading role in this and the Presidency will also provide direct support.
 
“We will involve the people in the affected communities, and not just bring people from outside these communities, in the rebuilding efforts. We will involve people in these villages, artisans and other people in the communities, with required skills so that they can also benefit economically as we rebuild these communities.”
 
It will be recalled that, at the monthly meeting of the National Economic Council (NEC) on February 15, Prof. Osinbajo informed the Council that President Buhari had approved the formation of a national Committee to look into the rebuilding of communities affected by the violence in the affected states.

This is in line with the Buhari administration’s commitment towards finding permanent solutions to the herdsmen-farmers clashes in some parts of the country, and ensuring the peace.

During today’s inaugural meeting, the Vice President, who is the chairman of the Governing Council, congratulated the new members and expressed the hope that the board would continue to be committed to the task ahead, adding that NEMA has been very visible in its role.
 
The Vice President further urged the agency to devote more to public sensitization regarding matters of emergency in the country and what the public needs to do in such circumstances.
 
Prof. Osinbajo added that NEMA should engage stakeholders more to participate in addressing its responsibilities, including the private sector and Civil Society Organisations (CSOs).
 




Members of the board include the Director-General, NEMA; the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF; representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Aviation; Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Ministry of Health; Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Water Resources. Other members include representatives of the Nigerian Armed Forces and the Nigeria Police Force.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment