Share this on WhatsApp

One of Yoruba elders has condemned the action of former President Olusegun Obasanjo over the weekend, saying the old general cannot stand on any moral ground to call anybody corupt.
Afenifere chieftain Ayo Adebanjo said in a decent society, Obasanjo would not feature in any public office.
He described Obasanjo as a “whited sepulchre,” who has problen explaining the sources of his wealth, saying the former president has not disputed that he had only N20,000 in his bank account when he returned from the prison in 1999.
According to the 90-year-old Afenifere leader, it was former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar and Oyewole Fasawe,a businessman, that bailed Obasanjo out of poverty.
Adebanjo said he is worried how people continue to give the former president “undue prominence in spite of his known character.”
“When a real government of the people comes into power, they would take Obasanjo’s Presidential Library Complex in Abeokuta from him,” he said in his 233-page book, Telling it as its, launched Tuesday.
He particularly dedicated chapters to discussing ‘Awolowo, Obasanjo and the Yoruba Nation.’
In his book, Adebanjo described Obasanjo’s eight years in civilian government as a tragedy and calamity.
“The man who carried on as if he was all-in-all failed woefully on all counts as President,” he wrote in the book.
“Before he came, we were buying fuel for N20 per litre, and crude oil was $23 per barrel. In 2007, under his regime, we were buying fuel at N75 per litre, and crude oil was between $65 and $75 per barrel. In the worst days of Abacha, one dollar was over N120.”
Obasanjo has been consistently picking on te President Muhammadu Buhari administration, describing it as a failurem and urging Nigerians to note vote for the APC leader in 2019.
Present at Adebanjo’s book launch were Commonwealth’s former Secretary-General Emeka Anyaoku, former military Vice-President, Cmdr. Ebitu Ukiwe (retd.), APC leader Bola Tinubu, and former governors of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba and Otunba Gbenga Daniel.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment