Share this on WhatsApp
Son of the late lawmaker representing Ifako Ijaiye federal constituency at the Federal House of Representatives, Hon. Adewale Elijah (aka Dr Jah)who died mysteriously on July 2016, has signalled the possibility of vying for a seat at the State House of Assembly come 2019.

Mr. Tope Adewale, made his intention to vie for the Ifako Ijaiye constituency I, seat in the state Assembly known at the donation of hundreds of furniture to public Primary Schools in Ifako Ijaiye Federal Constituency, by Hon. Nurudeen Akinwunmi.

In his words,  “this is what my late father believed so much in during his life time, as an academia he has always been an advocate of free and qualitative education for his constituents, with the mindset of ‘catching them young’ and now, we are witnessing good representation.

The young scion of late Jah who represented the Ifako Ijaiye federal constituency between 6th June, 2015 to July, 2016 is recalled to have aspired to replace his father after his demise at the green chamber, but political permutations within the All Progressives Congress then preferred Nurudeen Akinwunmi.

Speaking on why he succumb to party’s stance back then, Tope harped on loyalty as a key ingredient for any politician to be in the reckoning of stakeholders,the decision he made at the primary prior to the bye election,according to him was his litmus test .

While responding to question fielded by newsmen on what informed his decision to contest for the Lagos State House of Assembly, to represent Ifako Ijaiye constituency 1, he said the constituents preferred him.

 “The people of Ifako Ijaiye have decided I represent Ifako Ijaiye 1 in the Lagos State House Of Assembly this is beyond me as they insist it would give room for equity, fairness, justice, service, true representation which would reflect youth inclusion in governance, they are pushing me forward for that seat.”

Speaking further, he said, he has no choice than to obey the clarion call of the people of Ifako Ijaiye constituents , as the youth, women and all and sundry in the constituency deserves the best of representation.

He also said he is yet to formally declared his intention to contest in the 2019 general elections, but feelers shows he is one of the  aspirants to beat in the ruling All Progressives Party, APC, in Ifako Ijaiye constituency 01.


Speaking in a separate interview, Mr. Kayode Olabode a PDP chieftain in Ifako Ijaiye, said, “as a member of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, I support the aspiration of Tope Adewale, his late father has worked across the nooks and crannies of Ifako Ijaiye Federal Constituency before his demise, as I have also engaged him (Temitope) and I saw in him the good heart for the people, he possesses a good leadership skills to represent the people most especially he is still in his youthful age and the energy is there to represent us well”. He said.

Meanwhile, Ifako Ijaiye constituency 01, offers a level playing field as the incumbent lawmaker Hon. Dayo Saka Fafunmi is aspiring to unseat Akinwunmi at the Green Chamber in Abuja come 2019.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment