Share this on WhatsApp



Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) says it has restored power supply to residents of Ijegun Imore New Estate in Satellite Town after nine months outage due to transformer fault.
Owolabi Olubango, EKEDC Business Manager, Festac Unit told newsmen in Lagos that the company repaired the faulty transformer and installed another one to ensure stable power.
“We have installed and energised two transformers for the community on April 13.
“Supply was restored to the community on April 15, but unfortunately the repaired transformer exploded a day after the restoration.
“We have gone to check the transformer and effort is on to put it in proper shape, but notwithstanding more than 70 per cent of the residents are now enjoying supply from EKEDC.
“We enjoin the few consumers who are still on outage to exercise patience, the transformer will be put into proper shape and power will be restored before the week runs out,” he said.
Olubango implored the residents of Ijegun Imore to pay their electricity bills promptly, adding that the revenue would be used to upgrade the facilities in the community.
“The company has spent money to repair the transformer and cable to restore power supply back to the community, we implore our customers in this area to pay their electricity bills.
“It is only when the company makes money that they will be able to completely upgrade dilapidated equipment and cable in the area.
“Most of the consumers in this community are owing EKEDC; we want them to pay up their debt so that we provide good service to the community,” he said.
Mr Kamorudeen Akorede, Chairman, Electricity Committee of the area, confirmed that EKEDC had restored electricity supply to area.
He, however, said some houses were still in darkness.
“After our protest to EKEDC office in Festac on March 19, the management repaired the faulty transformer and installed it.
“They also installed the new transformer given to the community by the former chairman of our local government.
“On April 15, power supply was restored to the community but after few hours, the transformer that was repaired exploded.
“Up till now, they are still working on it. As at now over 70 per cent houses in the community are enjoying power supply,” he said.
Akorede however, appealed to the management of EKEDC to replace old cable on electric poles that supply the community.
He added that the cables were old and preventing smooth power supply when there was supply.
On March 19, residents of community blocked the main entrance of EKEDC Festac Business Unit, protesting over eight months of power outage in their areas.
The protesters, who stormed the EKEDC office in their hundreds, also prevented officials of the company and electricity consumers from entering the premises.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment