Share this on WhatsApp



By Alex Olise
A Former Commissioner for Culture and Tourism in Imo State, Engr. Alex Ogwazuo, has been kidnapped by unknown gunmen in Owerri, the state capital.
Although details of the abduction which happened at the weekend is still very sketchy as Police has swung into action to rescue the victim. National Daily gathered this morning that the youthful ex-commissioner was taken away in his Sports Utility Vehicle, SUV, to an unknown destination.
It was further gathered that the victim was allegedly attacked by his captors after leaving a social function in the evening. It will be recalled  that the former commissioner also served as Board Chairman of the Imo State Oil Producing Area Development Commission, ISOPADEC, before the board was dissolved by Governor Rochas Okorocha.
Meanwhile, a there was a sporadic shooting at the weekend in Umuagwu village, Ohii, Owerri West local government area of Imo State, following the alleged shooting of a young man by his landlord (names withheld). Confirming the story making the rounds in Umuagwu, a villager who spoke on strict grounds of anonymity, said that “the deceased was returning home from a viewing centre, where he had gone to watch an English Premier League football match”.
According to the villager, “the young man was accosted by his landlord and although he thought that what was brewing was a huge joke, but he is no longer alive to tell the story.” Continuing, the villager recalled that when all efforts made to revive him failed, his lifeless body was deposited in a morgue. Strong feelers from Umuagwu community had it that “angry youths have destroyed the man’s house, while his wife and children have fled into safety”.
A top Police source attached to the office of the commissioner of Police said the Police are investigating the incidents and will come up with result.
The Commissioner of Police Imo State Command, Chris Ezike had last week advocated for stiffer penalty against convicted cultists as a measure to reduce crime in the state.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment