Share this on WhatsApp



The Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) has launched an upgraded online portal accommodating loan tracking capabilities for improved application experience for applicants of its loan programmes. The website (www.lsetf.ng) possesses crystal visual look and feel with easier navigation for a better user experience.
The portal was redesigned to facilitate easier online loan application process that is traceable to the point of disbursement to the beneficiaries. There is also improved information sharing, communications and transparency on the loan programmes and other programmes being implemented by the LSETF.
The Executive Secretary of LSETF, Akin Oyebode, highlighted: “the revamped LSETF portal goes beyond enhanced visual appeal; it is rather a comprehensive enhancement that further deepens our commitment to transparency and actualization of our merit-based processes for applicants of the LSETF loans or any other party seeking to engage with us. In line with advancements in online capabilities that have greatly improved user experience, I am pleased that every applicant to the LSETF loan programmes can now easily track the progress of their applications within the comfort of their offices or homes.
“We have also included new features that will make the portal a repository of useful educative resources for our stakeholders. Visitors will benefit from the up-to-date information and training to guide them in making better business decisions. The resources to be hosted on the site will include guides on business regulations in Lagos which include local government taxes and levies and advert rates by Lagos State Signage & Advertisement Agency (LASAA). Most importantly, Lagos residents are to experience improved access to our customer service team, who give immediate response to their queries within 24 hours. The newly improved site is in an expression of our commitment to serve Lagos residents better.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment