Share this on WhatsApp



Leaders of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Alimosho, Lagos State, on Saturday, lauded Governor Akinwunmi Ambode over completion of 21 roads and three bridges connecting the State to Ogun State.
The leaders, in a joint statement, said the development was another eloquent testimony of the commitment of the State Government to make every part of the State economically viable and livable. The Senator, representing Lagos West senatorial district, Solomon Adeola Olamilekan; member, House of Representatives representing Alimosho, Olufemi Adebanjo; his counterpart representing Ifako-Ijaiye, Nurudeen Akinwunmi; Lagos State Commissioner for Employment and Wealth Creation, Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf; Special Adviser to Governor Ambode on Housing, Kehinde Joseph; member, Lagos State House of Assembly, Bisi Yusuf; and Lagos State APC Organizing Secretary, Alhaji Abdullahi Enilolobo; declared apart from being a clear testament to the attributes of the Governor in keeping his words, the completion of the projects would go a long way to solve traffic challenges hitherto associated with the area and significantly boost the economy of the entire Lagos West.
“The commissioning of a network of 21 roads, totaling 27km with bridges from Command, Ipaja to the boundary of Ogun State, marks the final implementation of a vision started by our leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu with the construction of LASU-Iba Road, to Egbe, Igando and Egbeda (when Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola was Commissioner for Works).
“Governor Raji Fashola continued the dualisation to Ipaja. You (Governor Ambode) continued the improvement from Ipaja to Command School, Ayobo and now to the boundary of Ogun State.
“Apart from creating an alternative route away from the Abeokuta Expressway, we can now travel to Otta boundary from Ogun State through AIT to Ipaja and Abesan to LASU-Iba Road- Ojo-Badagry without going through Agege-Abeokuta Expressway,” the leaders remarked.
The APC leaders maintained:: “The Governor, by the projects, has solved another traffic congestion challenge for us. The value of our properties have started going up. With the street lights, walkways and bridges, the night economy is back and the neighbourhood is safer. You have put food on our tables.
“Just like Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, you have continued to invest in people. The dividends of democracy are not shared on social media; the impact on the lives of our people in the communities is the greatest measure of performance. We love you and we are with you till the end,” the leaders said.
The Lagos-Ogun boundary roads which have been completed and ready for commissioning include Ikola Road with Odo Obasanjo Bridge – 6.4km (from Ipaja/Command to Ilo River); Ogunseye Road – 1.75km (from Ajasa/Command to Ikola Road);Oko Filling Road – 1.5km (from AIT to Ilo River); Osenatu Ilo road – 620m (from Ibari Road to Ilo River); Amikanle road – 3.1km (from AIT to Ogunseye Road); Aina Aladi road – 1.9km (from AIT to Ilo River) and Aiyetoro Road with a bridge– 1.4km (from New Market/Ishefun Road intersection to Ilo River).
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment