Share this on WhatsApp



Wolves have been promoted to the Premier League after Fulham conceded a stoppage-time equaliser against Brentford.
Nuno Espirito Santo’s side play Birmingham on Sunday, but Fulham’s 1-1 draw means that now only Cardiff can theoretically catch the Sky Bet Championship runaway leaders.
Wolves have won 28 of their 42 league games this term to seal a return to the top flight after a six-season absence.
Wolves managing director Laurie Dalrymple hailed the influence of manager Santo, the boss who arrived last summer after a spell in charge of Porto and has led the promotion push.
Dalrymple said: “What he’s brought in has been fantastic.
“He came in, he changed the playing style. We’ve recruited well and he’s galvanised the group really strongly in a very short space of time.
“And very, very quickly he had us playing a different style of football than we’d been accustomed to and a brand of football that was delivering results really quickly.”
Speaking on Sky Sports News, Dalrymple added: “He’s a superb tactician, he’s a superb strategist and he’s a superb man-manager. He’s extremely good with the players and the staff.
“I don’t really want to single people out particularly because it’s been a huge unified club effort from start to finish but there’s no doubt he’s been an incredibly important component in the whole thing and what he’s changed since he’s come in has been fantastic.
Nuno’s team have occupied top spot in the Championship since October and achieved promotion with four games to spare.
Their attention will now turn to clinching the title, with Wolves nine points ahead of second-placed Cardiff.
They can all-but do that in front of their own supporters at Molineux on Sunday when they host Birmingham. Victory would see Wolves open up a 12-point gap, with Cardiff having a significantly inferior goal difference and only four matches remaining.
The way Wolves have achieved promotion has drawn criticism, however.
The Midlands club have connections with super-agent Jorge Mendes and have spent heavily on recruiting talent such as Diogo Jota, Ruben Neves, Willy Boly and Ivan Cavaleiro.
Leeds owner Andrea Radrizzani was particularly vocal in his grievances about their financial dealings following his club’s 3-0 home defeat to Wolves at Elland Road in March and these have been looked at by the EFL.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment