Share this on WhatsApp



Since fans got a hint of the new movie (The Twist) recently wrapped at Amen Estate location, it’s been a waiting game for all as they expect a blockbuster hit from the stables of Apanpa Pictures Media. National Daily looks at the 6 reasons have become impatient about seeing the movie.
Ayo Mogaji the thespian’s thespian
The London based Nigerian journalist, Dare Lasisi, once said (and I agree), “When the history of Nollywood is fully compiled for the unborn generations, Ayo Mogaji Oduleye ‘s name must be able to stand tall among the legends that revolutionized the theatre industry in the most populous country in Africa”. Believe it or not, Ayo Mogaji has been in the theater business for 39 years with a lot to show for it.  What else could one really have expected from a lady thespian who had Sam Loco-Efe and Taiwo Ajayi-Lycett as mentors in the acting business?  After seeing Ayo Mogaji alongside Iya Rainbow, Ngozi Nwosu and Idowu Phillips (aka Iya Rainbow) in Davido’s latest hit “Flora My Flawa“. We all can’t wait to visually consume The Twist.
Saheed Apanpa an emerging force in Nollywood
Saheed Apanpa is an internationally recognized film maker, director and an actor. He has won lots of accolades. In 2013, ‘Hood Rush’, one of the films on his plate as a movie crew, featured at the Berlin film festival in Germany.  Saheed’s experience as one of Nollywood’s best director precedes him as his works speaks for him. With films like Dark Closet, Last Date, Dagger, All for the Money, Culprit, Six Months Madness, The Sync, and many more. It’s no surprise that he has become one of the most sought-after directors in Nigeria.  His cinema debut, Dagger, had 5-day sold-out record. These and many more reasons are why Nigerians awaits to see the new film The Twist.
Kemigisha Harriet the Nollywood diva from Uganda
Rumor has it that Harriet is the next Omotola of Nollywood, however facts show her steady rise in Nigeria’s film industry. The thrilling story of a young lady, who hails from Kasese District of western Uganda, left her country for Nigeria with the dream of becoming a thespian in Nollywood. She came, studied acting at Wale Adenuga Production’s  PEFTI, entered Nollywood and has since featured in several Nollywood blockbusters.
Culprit, The Trauma, Before the Vow, White Lie, Slaves and freeborn, Been on Mummy Bear are the movie steps Harriet took towards nailing her first lead in The Twist.  If the buzz on Instagram created by leak photos of the movie is anything to go by, then we are in for some awesome movie.
Anthony Monjaro from Lekki Wives to being one of the hottest male actors
Anthony Monjaro has been a full time actor in Nollywood for close to 6 years, he’s trained as an actor at the Goldsmith College UK, and went on to get a degree in Multimedia and Film Production at the Thames Valley University, now known as West London University UK.  He featured in Last Flight To Abuja, has acted in popular TV series like Tinsel and Lekki Wives. Since delivering a 5-star performance in the 3-season Lekki Wives, Monjaro has become an house hold name.  Recently he has wowed fans with his gig in Remember Me. And people can stop talking about his role in Wetin Women Want by Seun Oloketuyi. Putting all these together, we know we are certainly in for a big treat as we wait for The Twist to land.
Joseph Momodu is the Joromi every young lady wants nowadays
Fast rising actor and model, Abubakar Joseph Momodu also known as Mr Joromi is gradually becoming a household name in the Nigerian entertainment industry. Playing lead roles in numerous Nollywood movies and popularly known for starring as songstress Simi’s love interest in the hit single ‘JOROMI’. Since playing Joromi in that musical video ladies don’t only pray to be lifted up the way ABK carried Simi. They also want to see their favorite model in a film. ABK’s fans can’t wait to see The Twist.
Introducing Ediale Kingsley
Ediale Kingsley is a writer, journalist, publicist, film maker and an actor. He makes a Nollywood debut on The Twist movie after a 10-year sabbatical from acting. He had wrote, produced and acted his first film while he was yet a student in Auchi Polytechnic.
He is the Head of the Entertainment & Sports Desk at National Daily Newspaper. Although, this National Daily trained journalist went to school to be a graduate in accounting, he has since made basic impact in the media world. He’s been in the media business for over a decade now and has at some point worked with, interviewed or promoted notable  brands and celebs like Tuface, Femi Kuti, Genevieve Nnaji, Cobhams, Kehinde Bankole, Ali Baba, Ay, Majek Fashek, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo…the list is quite endless.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment