Share this on WhatsApp






By Tom Garba, Yola

Mr Ibrahim  Idris,  the Inspector  General (IGP) of Police on Monday says he has deployed a surveillance helicopter and three mobile police units to Taraba to tackle security challenges in the state.

Idris announced  this in Jalingo when he paid a courtesy call on Gov Darius  Ishaku  of the state.

The IGP noted that the governor  had met with him one week ago in Abuja and made demands for additional  men and materials  to curb the upsurge  of killings in the state.

“I want to announce  to you that the surveillance  aircraft  you requested is already in the state. We have also deployed three additional  mobile police units to ensure the total restoration  of peace in the state.

“I can assure you that  we will do everything to ensure that the inhabitants  of the state are safe,” he said.

Idris also said he would  inaugurate the mobile squadron  base in Takum on Tuesday to help in fighting criminality in the state.

In his response,  Gov Ishaku  commended  the police  command for working tirelessly  towards achieving peace in the state. The governor also commended the IGP for his prompt response  to his  request for additional men and equipment  to achieve peace.

“I want to commend the state commissioner  of Police, Mr David Akinremi for his tireless efforts  at achieving peace in the state. Mr IGP, I can tell you  that the command in the state is doing very well.

“what I can ask for again is the construction of a permanent  police headquarters  in the state. The current place now is the area command which is not so conducive for the officers to operate effectively,” he said.

Ishaku, however, appealed to the IGP to do more in  ending the current killings that occurred on daily basis, especially in southern part of the state.
“ As I speak with you, six people were killed in fresh herdsmen  attack on Monday in Takum. Please help us in Wiping away the tears of our people”, the governor said.

















Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment