Share this on WhatsApp










tasks cooperators on financial rectitude 




President of the Cooperative Federation of Nigeria, Mr. Oriyomi Ayeola has called on cooperators especially the leaders in all cooperative society to desist from bad behaviours emanating from different quarters on the issue of misappropriation and embezzlement of cooperators’ funds.
He made the call during his installation as Arobayo of Epeland, where he urge cooperative executives to uphold moral rectitude and accountability.
“We do hear some sort of bad behaviour from some of our leaders, I need to tell them that whatever you do,you will  be rewarded for it.
“We should all know that we are being watched as a group and as an individual. As cooperators the onus is on us to know that whatever position we hold, we must be accountable.
“We need to know that we are holding in trust funds for the benefit of all and every thing we are doing should be done with trust being the cardinal of cooperatives scheme”.
He as well encouraged the sole proprietors and small scale business owners to come together and form cooperative for their benefit.
“Aside having access to funds they can also do a lot of things to assist themselves as a group”, he said.
According to Ayeola,we are duty bound to take cooperative to the next level.
“We have so many areas where we want to rejig cooperative society and introduce new things in various sectors. Therefore Nigerians  should expect more from us as event unfolds.” Ayeola affirms.
Speaking on the title he has been bestowed with in his hometown, much  elated Ayeola stated that he felt honoured to have come to the reckoning of the stakeholders in Epe who consider him for the chieftaincy title authorised by the Oloja of Epe His Royal Highness Oba Kamorudeen Animashaun.
 Ayeola who also heads the Lagos State Cooperative Federation along with other clan heads were installed same day at the instance of dignitaries like;  Balogun of Epe Kingdom Chief Lanre Razak, Hon. Ayeola Member representing Epe Federal Constituency at the Federal House of Representatives,Hon.Abiodun Tobun representing Epe constituency I at the Lagos Assembly and other traditional title holders.
“This is an avenue to reflect on what I have done and also to show more love in appreciation of honour done on me,for one to recognized in his place is worthy of note.
There are so many in this town,  who are even more outstanding but I was preferred above them, I will however consider furthermore, ways to forge ahead in good works and giving back to my hometown and the society at large”. He pledged.
The rich culture of Epe Kingdom was well displayed as a form of oath of allegiance was taken by each and every newly installed title holder and Chief who dined and wine with the king one after the other, symbolizing a bond to always ensure the progress of the kingdom, the do’s and don’t of a chief was reeled out loudly to the chiefs and their wives.
Songs and chants laced with rich folklores and history of the Epe Kingdom were rendered by traditional ruler who came to fraternize with the Oloja over the installation intermittently and seamlessly arousing the excitement of Epe aborigines and others present.













Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment