Share this on WhatsApp



The National Chairman of the ruling APC is getting some nerves as the party prepares to hold its convention in preparation for the 2019 election.
John Oyegun advised the party to not feel conceited it is the ruling party because Nigerians are now smarter.
“We have a tough election ahead of us and we must prime ourselves for that election. We must not cuddle ourselves with any false sense of being the party in power,”he said while inaugurating the party’s 2018 convention committee in Abuja.
The committee is headed by Jigawa Gov. Abubakar Baduru.
The party chairman, however, said he was happy that the APC “is a living party “, and that its leadership remains committed and dedicated to ensuring that this party is out in fighting mood for the 2019 elections.
He charged the members of the committee to ensure that the outcome of the convention reunite the APC members.
“I am passing the buck over to you today. At the end of this exercise, I want to see a re-united APC under whatever leadership your exercise brings up,” he said.
According to him, Nigerians today are more aware of their rights than they have ever been before.
“So, as you proceed, please ensure that all these views and opinions are brought together into a one united APC.
“The task that you have undertaken to perform is a heavy and tough one. The APC is known, in spite of induced controversies, for the cleanest primaries and congresses.
” Our last presidential primary was by all account one of the best ever held and I dare say, anywhere.
“It was a convention that was watched world wide and you are supposed to repeat the feat. I have no doubt that this one, given the controversies that have preceded it will also be a most watched convention.
“So, you have the task of producing a convention that is free, fair and provide a level playing field for anybody who wants to aspire to any position.”
Besides internal wrangling that has been rocking the party, its popularity and that of President Muhammadu Buhari have been nose-diving lately.
And oppositions, building coalitions and alliances, are taking advantage of the party’s misfortune to make it a hard sell come 2019.
The likely party flag-bearer for the 2019 presidency may be incumbent president Buhari who has fallen out with the party chairman seeking automatic tenure elongation.
The party has since been further divided since Buhari described the tenure extension as unconstitutional, something that jibed with apc national leader Bola Timubu who also has not been in good terms with Oyegun.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment