Share this on WhatsApp
The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has reiterated its commitment at ensuring improved and better telecom services to consumers, noting that it regularly engages service providers with a view to tackling the quality of service challenges.

Executive Vice Chairman of the Commission, Prof Umar Garba   Danbatta, reiterated this resolve at an interactive session with the media in Lagos on Monday, April 16.

Prof Danbatta stated that he was not unmindful of the various challenges facing telecom operators, but added that the NCC is working assiduously with other stakeholders at ensuring those obstacles are removed.

“We’re currently seeking for a review of the National Economic Councils recommendations on ways that will eliminate multiple taxation and regulations that have created bottlenecks in the provision of services in different states of the federation,” Danbatta stated.

He said while the negotiations are still ongoing, telecom operators must also be mindful of the services they rendered to consumers who ultimately pay the price.

“We have directed service providers to live up to the expectations of their consumers, or be sanctioned in accordance with the laws guiding the industry, which may include publication of their QoS performances for the observation of the members of the public.”

He said the commission is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that consumers are well informed about solutions provided by the NCC to improve their quality of experience.

The EVC said the commission had noticed that the lack of the right information, or inability to access solutions that are available actually contributed  negatively to the quality of experience of the consumers, hence the need to invest in vigorous campaigns.

“We’re taking campaign of creating awareness to all the nooks and crannies of this country, using the media, including print, electronics media and face-to-face communication,” he added.

He also said the NCC has evolved messages that suit the consumers of telecom services in different languages, noting that the commission has amplified and expanded different consumer-focused outreach programmes.

According to him, the Do-Not-Disturb code, 2442 which enables subscriber to stop indiscriminate unsolicited test messages on their phones is one the initiatives in creating awareness, noting that over 9 million subscribers have activated the code because of the vigorous awareness campaigns.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment