Share this on WhatsApp

 
A Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) Senator from Abia State, Eyinnaya Abaribe, on Thursday described President Muhammadu as incompetent following the statement Buhari made while receiving Justin Welby, Archbishop of Cantebury.

While receiving Justin Welby, archbishop of Canterbury, Buhari blamed the farmers, herders’ clashes on militias trained by Muammar Gaddafi, former prime minister of Libya.

But speaking on the floor on the chamber, Abaribe wondered why the president was still the commander-in-chief when he could not protect the country from invasion. “Two explanations were given by highly ranked security personnel on the matter of herdsmen versus farmers clashes,” he said.

“First of all, the IGP said that these killings were as a result of laws being passed by states. Secondly, the defence minister said that these killings were as a result of the blockage of routes through which these herders are to move their cattle.
 
He argued that when a commander-in-chief cannot take care of arms men who invaded the country, he should have resigned. “Why is he still a commander-in-chief, why do we continue to indulge? Why do we continue to indulge this president that everywhere goes along to tell everyone outside this country that he is totally incompetent? Because it is obvious.”

However, lawmakers of the All Progressives Congress (APC) challenged him, with shouts of “point of order” erupting in the chamber.

After calm returned to the chamber, Ahmed Lawan, majority leader, cited order 53 of the senate rules, saying the president deserves respect.

“The president of the federal republic of Nigeria is the leader of this country and deserves the respect and courtesy of this chamber and those of us in it,” Lawan said.

Cautioning Abaribe, Senate President Bukola Saraki said words that are offensive should not be used.

Responding, Abaribe said: “I am very well guided by you but there are words that there are no alternatives to. What I did was to interpret the words by Mr President in London. If any word I used is misunderstood by anyone, I apologise. What I am saying is simple.”





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment