Share this on WhatsApp



Youths suspected to be political thugs at the weekend attacked Alhaji Dahiru Yabo, a critic of the Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal. Yabo is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress in the state.
The attack, according to eyewitnesses, took place in front of Tambuwal’s private residence shortly after the wedding of the governor’s cousin’s daughter.
Yabo, one of the dignitaries that attended the event, was reportedly ambushed by the hoodlums, who attacked the vehicle conveying him out of the venue.
An eyewitness told our correspondent that it took the intervention of the security men at the governor’s residence to stop the attackers.
In a statement made available to journalists in Sokoto, Yabo, a former commissioner and a supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari, described the attack as an attempt to assassinate him because of his political views in recent times.
He said, “The political assassination attempt on me at the governor’s residence yesterday left no one in doubt to their low level of sensible and rational judgment.
“The acts clearly indicated their intention to lynch me and possibly send me to an early grave as instructed by their political godfather, and sponsors.
“It is therefore apparent on every responsible members of the Sokoto State family to come on board in this noble cause aimed at dislodging this crop of leadership that is very insensitive to the plight of its citizenry.
When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Cordelia Nwawe, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP ) could not confirm the incident as calls and messages sent to her mobile phone were unanswered.
Meanwhile, the longstanding political feud that threatened the unity of the APC in the state has been settled, with the principal rivals, Tambuwal and Senator Umaru Dahiru,  attending a function together for the first time since 2014.
The former allies went their separate ways in December 2014 after Tambuwal defeated Dahiru, who was the chairman of the Senate committee on judiciary to emerge the standard bearer of the APC for the April 2015 Sokoto governorship election.
Dahiru challenged the emergence of Tambuwal and twice lost at the trial and appellate courts. He was however prevailed upon not to drag the matter to the Supreme Court.
A source in Sokoto attributed the resolution of the feud to the intervention of community elders and religious leaders.
“It is true they have reconciled. That was why the former senator visited the governor in Sokoto on Saturday to attend a wedding. In the past, he had avoided such gatherings; but this time, to prove that all past differences had been settled, he came to the venue and went straight to greet the governor. He was also offered a seat in the front row and took part in all the activities as a respected family member.
 “Since the reconciliation, he (the senator) has privately expressed his joy at how the APC has been steering the ship of state. He has commended Governor Tambuwal on his stewardship and has given commitment to give his support to the success of the administration,” said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
It was gathered that the senator’s allies and immediate family members had been co-opted into the running of the government as a sign of goodwill.
Following the development, some APC chiefs in the state on Sunday commended the moves to reconcile party members.
A source confirmed to National Daily on condition of anonymity on Sunday that the duo had been at loggerheads for a long period of time.
Mallam Ahmad Abdullahi and Alhaji Muktar Malami, both residents, also said the amicable resolution of internal differences among the party members was a welcome development.
They stressed that peace and understanding would ensure success for the party in future elections.
Efforts to get the reactions of the governor, the senator and the APC officials failed, but a party leader promised to address newsmen on the development at an appropriate time.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment