Share this on WhatsApp

Mobilises South East support for a new president




Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has taken his campaign against President Muhammadu Buhari to the South East, Nigeria. The former President at a meeting of the Coalition of Nigerian Moment (CNM) in Awka, Anambra State, on Wednesday, called on Ndigbo in the South East geopolitical zone to vote out President Buhari in the 2019 general elections “in their own interest.”
Obasanjo maintained that the Igbo would be the most beneficiary in Buhari’s ouster in 2019, admonishing them against the decoy that voting Buhari in 2019 will pave way for an Igbo President in 2023.
The former President cautioned the Igbo nation not to believe the promise that the Igbo would produce the President in 2023, describing it as “a grand deceit and evil machination.”
Represented by the South East Convener of CNM, Dr. Okey Nwosu, Obasanjo enjoined the Igbo to “collectively work with the CNM towards ousting Buhari from office in the 2019 general elections.” He accused the All Progressives Congress government of perpetrating “carnage and wanton destruction of lives and property across the country.”
Obasanjo declared: “The meeting is a wake-up call for Nd’Igbo to dump APC and collaborate with CNM, which is the best alternative for their rescue from poverty, hunger, recklessness and ethnic cleansing in the hands of the Hausa/Fulani marauders.
“Every Nigerian leader is very much embarrassed with the state of the nation where people are attacked, killed, raped and made refugees in their own homes.
“Political leaders must advocate action against these senseless killings and seek how to design a new democratic action plan to ensure we take care of this conundrum democratically, and say, ‘Enough is enough.’
“If unchecked, these unethical activities will lead to the destruction of the country. It does not augur well for Nigeria’s development.”
The former President explained that the CNM objective is mostly on how to “sack Buhari from Aso Rock in 2019 and ensure that a visionary government is elected.”
Obasanjo further declared: “Nigeria’s eminent personalities, including Generals Yakubu Gowon, Ibrahim Babangida and T.Y. Danjuma have all spoken and condemned the killings and destruction in the country.
“If these people can say that the nation needs to be saved from these calamities, the South-East geo-political zone must add their voice to the clarion call.”
He revealed that the CNM had mobilised no fewer than five million Nigerians to realise its objectives in 2019.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment