Peace and Mum before she was killed

        Share this on WhatsApp

By Odunewu Segun




Peace Henry, a 22-year old 200 level English student of the University of Lagos would not have set out of her home situated at No 9 Oguchi Okorie Street, off Ikola road, behind Ray Power, Alagbado, if she had had the premonitions of what awaited her on the evening of December 16, 2017.

Peace, said to be an usher in Winners Chapel was full of life when she set out to deliver some items to her elder sister who was attending a wedding at distance not far from her estate when a grader belonging to Laralek Ultimate Limited crushed her to death.

According to the deceased father, Dr. Henry Mensah, Peace died due to the negligence of Laralek Ultimate Limited who had failed to have a safety officer on ground at a construction site in Alagbado area.

The 73-year old father said her daughter was on motorcycle when the grader reversed and hit the bike from behind, throwing peace on the ground and subsequently ran over her. “While the motorcyclist escaped with injuries, peace was pronounced dead on arrival at the hospital due to internal and external head injuries,” Dr. Mensa said with tears.

Dr. Mensal alleged a conspiracy to sweep the negligent death of his daughter under the carpet despite facts pointing to the culpability of the construction company said to belong to another Winners Chapel members.

From the affidavits made available to National Daily, Dr. Mensa alleged he had already taken steps to institute legal actions against Laralek but was persuaded by a certain Pastor Tella from Winners Chapel to drop the case.

“Pastor Tella and his wife approached me and begged me to drop the case, assuring me that Don Tony Adebiyi, Chairman of Laralek sent them to negotiate with me.”

“I told them that I wanted my daughter back, and that since they couldn’t do that, they should set up an endowment fund, worth N10 million in her name as a way of immortalizing her.”

Dr. Mensa told National Daily that Barrister Tayo, a counsel to Laralek has the agreement, claiming they reneged on their promise, and have been playing politics with the death of his daughter.

When National Daily contacted Barrister Tayo on phone, he said no such agreement was entered into, “what we said was to compensate the family since they all attends the same church and the unfortunate death was accidental. Before the burial, we gave N400, 000 to the family and promised another N500, 000 which is ready. What remains is for the family to sign necessary papers.”

Pastor Tella, whom Dr. Mensa said brokered the agreement was also contacted on phone, he, however refused to comment on the matter.
 



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment