Share this on WhatsApp





Odunewu Segun

Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former governor of Lagos state says he had no interest whatsoever in Visionscape, the foreign environmental utility group recently contracted by the Lagos state government to manage waste in the state.

Recall that the Lagos State Government had awarded the state refuse collection contract to Visionscape, saying the firm has what it takes to realise the state’s waste-to-wealth vision and manage the state’s waste effectively.

The contract was awarded after the government terminated the services of the PSPs who were previously in charge of waste collection and management in the state.

But weeks after the governor’s self-assured statement about Visionscape’s capacity to rid the state of waste, it became evident that the company was struggling with the task.

Reacting to the pleas of the sacked PSP operators under the aegis of Waste Managers Association of Nigeria, who presented him with a petition at his residence in Bourdillon, Ikoyi on Friday, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu said contrary to insinuations that he owned Visionscape, he knows nothing about the company.

He said the decision to bring in the company to handle waste collection and management was solely that of Lagos state government, and has nothing to do with him.

“I’m concerned as a leader, resident and a father in the state that heaps of refuse are gradually returning to Lagos. When driving around Lagos, I have seen a buildup of refuse. Be rest assured that we’re not going to allow that to happen.”

He assured the PSP operators that their petition would get to Governor Akinwumi Ambode and a lasting solution found for the impasse.

“Personally, I think Visionscape was brought in to address the complexities of waste collection and management in the state, it could be an experiment, and I’m sure the governor too will be magnanimous enough to reverse such a decisions if it’s not working,” Asiwaju assured the operators.

Earlier in his remark, Vice Chairman of the association, David Oriyemi appealed to Asiwaju Tinubu, saying the over 25 thousand direct jobs created by the 350 PSP operators are being threatened by the decision of the Lagos state government decision to give their jobs to a foreign company.

He said PSP when it was created by the Asiwaju Administration during his first term in office has over the years grown to become a role model that is being copied by other states in Nigeria, and even beyond the country.

“So, I wonder why Governor Akinwumi Ambode would at this time changed a performing team for a yet to be tested company in an environment as complex as Lagos state. We know the routes,” Oriyemi emphasized.

He therefore appealed to Asiwaju Tinubu to help use his immense influence in the state to persuade Governor Ambode to return to the status quo.



 









Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment