Share this on WhatsApp
By Lanre Adesanya

Resolved to address the cause of the seeming voter apathy cited in the Lagos polity, directly linked to huge numbers of unclaimed Permanent Voters Cards (PVC)  ahead of the 2019 general elections, G-35 Elite Movement in collaboration with Ojokoro Formidable Team is set to hold a walk for fitness tagged “Walk for Ambo-Makinde” to sensitize constituents on the need to collect their  PVCs.

The group’s planning committee chairman, Mr. Gafar Owolabi Oroki, while stating the essence of staging a walk noted that it has become imperative to sensitize the people of the constituency on collection of their PVC so as to have a voice in the 2019 generation election.

“Recently, INEC said Lagos is topping the list of states with unclaimed PVCs, which is over 1.4million cards, this is worrisome, quickly we put heads together to see how we can help INEC reduce this numbers so, we decided to put up a road walk, where we can be able to harp on the importance of collecting the PVC, we shall  also showcase what the incumbent administration of Lagos state,both the Executive and Legislature has done for us.

Emphasizing why the clearly working clique should not be let down at this particular time.

“We feel for more meaningful development to come to our constituency we must increase our voting population, that’s why we are organizing a road walk to give our people the necessary education and sensitization that would spur them to go and claim their PVCs from the INEC office.

“We are also going to educate those who are just 18years and above to go and register to exercise their franchise and for those who just moved into our constituency, we will encourage them to do transfer of their voter’s card so that they can be part of this forthcoming 2019 general elections.”

Speaking further, Mr. Gafar Oroki said, the constituency over time have always swinged between second and third in the voting statistics of Lagos State.

He maintained the proppsed walk would give them a much better edge.

The Publicity Secretary of the committee Mr. Tunde El-Rufai, in a chat with newsmen clearly mapped out how the walk with be routed. “We have decided to converge at Abule Egba Jubilee flyover bridge, then we would move through Charity Road link Agbe Road, then head off to Kola in Alagbado and back to Ijaiye. Where we are going to register our solidarity with the All Progressives Congress Party, and endorse Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for a second term in office.
“We shall also implore our great party through this avenue to field  Hon. Makinde Rasheed Lanre as member Lagos State House Of Assembly to represent Ifako Ijaiye constituency II for a second term.

We are convince beyond reasonable doubt that a synergy between  Ambo-Makinde frontiers is a remarkable concept, with viable  potentials,with lots of successes for our dear constituency.
“Imagine for the first time since the creation of this constituency in 2003, we are feeling and seeing the dividends of democracy more, I make bold to say after, Alimosho and Epe in Lagos state Ifako Ijaiye constituency II, Ojokoro is the next in terms of massive roads construction.
“Currently we have over 20 roads being constructed by His Excellency Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, then why won’t we walk barefooted for him from Abule Egba to Epe in solidarity, he has done us proud and we must do our part by ensuring governor Ambode has a landslide victory in Ojokoro LCDA and by extension Lagos State.” Rufai said.

Meanwhile, the walk is slated for 1st of May, 2018 by 7am. Residents have been enjoined to turn out in their large numbers to join the walk for fitness for Ambo-Makinde continuity beyond 2019, as souvenirs will be given to all participants at the take-off point.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment