Share this on WhatsApp



Big brother Naija 3 double wahala is full of amazing happenings. Barely 24 hours after housemate Bambam was surprisingly and unexpectedly evicted from the show, her popular romantic partner in the house Teddy A becomes evicted too.
Bambam got unexpectedly evicted after the Saturday housemate party to the surprise of many. She became the first housemate to get evicted on a Saturday.
A lot of viewers have commented on how both romantic partners got evicted simultaneously. To some, Big brother Naija is biased and not true to the votes, to others Teddy A and Bambam probably shared votes and fans. However, CeeC’s recent act and disregard to the show’s main sponsor, Payporte has gone undiscussed.
Big Brother Naija, formerly known as Big Brother Nigeria, is a reality TV show based on the Big Brother TV series in which 12 contestants live in an isolated house and compete for a large cash prize worth $100000 at the end of the show by avoiding being evicted by viewers. The first season of the show first aired on DStv Channel 37 from March 5 to June 4, 2006. The voting results are verified by the auditing company of Alexander-Forbes.
The first season of the show first aired on DStv Channel 37 from March 5 to June 4, 2006. In a twist to the game, two new contestants were introduced on Day 23, much to the excitement of the remaining house mates.
Ebuka, the most popular house mate for several weeks into the show and widely believed to emerge winner was the seventh house mate to be evicted; many viewers blame the Joe’s Fan Club (JFC) for his eviction. Joe himself was soon evicted from the show.
Big Brother added another twist to the game on day 79 by cancelling the day’s scheduled nominations and making the house mates believe they will instead be evicted based on their performances on assigned tasks while in reality no more evictions were held and viewers began voting for the winner who turned out to be 26-year-old Katung Aduwak.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment