Share this on WhatsApp

woos Saraki, Tambuwal, others

The National Chairman of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has said no amount of intimidation will stop the party from defeating the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 elections.

Secondus made the statement at the weekend in Asaba, the Delta state capital at the endorsement of Governor Okowa as the sole candidate of Anioma nation for the 2019 governorship election in the state.

He said the ruling party had failed to fulfil any of the promises it made in 2015 which made Nigerians to vote for President Muhammadu Buhari.

Meanwhile, the PDP is said to have called on Senate President Bukola Saraki and Sokoto state governor Aminu Tambuwal, his predecessor, Senator Aliyu Wammako, former Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso (Kano) and former Governor Danjuma Goje (Gombe) to return to its fold in order to wrest power from the All Progressives Congress (APC) next year.

National Daily learnt from a member of the party’s NEC that it is like they are being begged to return to their roots as part of a larger reconciliation policy in PDP.

The PDP is said to have also initiated talks with three APC governors in the northwest, which is the political base of President Muhammadu Buahri.

”We want Tambuwal, Kwankwaso, Wammako, Goje and others in PDP because we see them as “game changers. We are also targeting ex-Governor Sani Ahmed Yerima of Zamfara State who has always been in the opposition until the APC coalition emerged, the source said.

The source said some of those contacted have given sufficient signal that they might quit APC. “If you look at some states, the associates of these key leaders have started deriding APC. Some of them have even defected from APC to PDP. So, we are positive.”

”We believe we have conceded enough by granting a waiver to all PDP returnees and new members. We have promised them equity and justice too in all our dealings.

”Another concession is granting these bigwigs the control of PDP machinery in their states in order to determine who to field for the 2019 polls. We, however, added a caveat that they should accommodate those who have been steering the affairs of PDP in the affected states before their return.”

He said while none these party leaders has given any commitment, the PDP also has not promised them automatic presidential ticket. “We are firm on this,” he added.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment