Share this on WhatsApp
While many others would have organized a lavish party for their wealthy friends to celebrate their birthday, Dr. Chris Okafor of the Greater Liberation City Family on Sunday 29th, instead used the occasion to empower over a hundred widows and several others.

Dr. Okafor, a man known for his concise prophecies and generosity gave each widow the sum of N200, 000 each and several food items to cushion the effects of hardship being face by the widows.

While giving out the cash gifts, Dr. Okafor advised the widows not to despise the days of little beginning as the church and the Dr. Chris Okafor Humanitarian Foundation will continually be on standby to put smiles on their faces all over the country, and beyond.

He said God is always happy when you bless other people, especially those that are less privileged in the society, adding that his foundation has been a source of blessing to many, and will continue to do its best to improve the lives of people it comes across.

Some of the widows who were full of tears thanked the man of God who they address as the ‘Oracle’, promising to make adequate use of the money.

They also prayed that the anointing on Dr. Okafor will not ceased, adding that he has been a source of happiness to many widows, wiping their tears and providing them with shelters when they had nobody to rely on.

Dr. Chris Okafor birthday which began on the 28th April 2018 at the prestigious Sheraton Hotel ikeja, Lagos Nigeria was well attended by all the sons and daughters of the greater liberation city worldwide.

While praying for the celebrant, Bishop Isaac Idahosa of Illumination Assembly said Dr. Chris Okafor has laid a formidable legacy for other to follow, describing him as a humble general of God.

Some Nigerian comedians were on the stand to entertain guest, among them are klint de drunk, accapela among many others, Igbo cultural troupe from the south east made the day a remarkable one.

High point of the birthday was the surprise presentation of a 2017 model of G wagon bullet proof car to the generational prophet by all the sons and daughter of prophet.

While receiving the birthday gift, Dr. Chris Okafor thanked all his sons and daughter for the gift, saying they will continue to enjoy the grace upon his life because whoever give to a prophet will continually enjoy the benefit of doing for a prophet.

He said he is proud of them all because they are part of the mandate to win one billion souls to the kingdom of God and also depopulate the kingdom of darkness.

Dr. Chris Okafor, popularly referred to as ‘The Oracle of God’ is leader and founder of Mountain Of Liberation and Miracle Ministry, also known as Greater Liberation City.

He is a giver, providing succor and empowering the underprivileged with skills acquisition, scholarship via The Chris Okafor Humanity Foundation. He has also received numerous recognitions, notably of which was ‘The Most accurate Seer of the Year.”




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment