Share this on WhatsApp



Some civil society organisations have petitioned President Muhammadu Buhari over what it termed the unjust and unconstitutional removal of the immediate past Acting Director General of the National intelligence Agency, Amb. Mohammed Dauda.
In the petition signed by Auwal Ibrahim Musa (Rafsanjani), Olanrewaju Suraju (CSNAc) and Eze Nwagwu (Zero-Corruption Coalition), the anti-graft crusaders said they are calling for immediate investigation into the reported harassment, threat, victimization and sack of the whistleblower with a view to bringing the case and the culprits to account, and appropriate measures to protect Amb. Dauda from further life threatening, harassment and intimidation.
The statement reads: “We the undersigned civil society groups working on transparency, accountability and good governance in Nigeria write to draw your eminent attention to the reported and investigated case of corruption in the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) that apparently led to the unjust and unconstitutional removal of the immediate past Acting Director General of the Agency, Amb. Mohammed Dauda.
“While we applaud the courageous efforts by your administration in waging war against corruption in the country, we are deeply worried that a high profile case of corruption as demonstrated by Amb. Babagana Kingibe-led Presidential Review Panel being investigated by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) after a public outcry by the former Acting Director General exposing the rigorous efforts by the Panel to siphon a controversial $44 million Intervention Fund belonging to the Agency.”
The petition to the President reads further: “We are surprised that despite the administration’s commitments at 2016 Anti-Corruption Summit in London, Open Government Partnership as well as campaign promise to combat corruption in all ramifications without fear or favour, official corruption is deeply embedded and fast becoming a permanent fixture whose subculture melts seamlessly into the public service daily activities, as practically demonstrated, encouraged and operated by the Presidential Review Panel whose report was expected to inform Presidential topmost decision.
“Similarly, apart from not succumbing to the Panel’s demands to siphon the fund, we are also surprised that under the administration whose commitment to fight corruption is widely acknowledged, Amb. Dauda’s removal was orchestrated from such intelligent position by the indicted Panel without due process and approval from the President as required by the provisions of Section 1 to 3 of the National Security Agencies Decree, 1986 (Cap 278 LFN).
“We must state that the recent harassment, intimidation and persistent attempts on the life of Amb. Dauda constitutes a serious infringement on human rights as protected under the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights and African Convention on Preventing and Combating Corruption.
“This if not addressed will without doubt, frustrate whistleblowing activities and eventually aggravate the country’s unfavourable position in human rights violation in the international and continental spheres.”
The coalition said it find it disturbing that the continued inaction by the Presidency over the reported case is currently leaving the public in a serious doubt about the administration’s true position and readiness to combat corruption, protect whistleblowers and may worsen the country’s unfavourable corruption indexes before the international community, as recently revealed by 2017 Corruption Perception Index (CPI) of Transparency International Secretariat in Germany.
“We therefore call for immediate investigation into the reported harassment, threat, victimization and sack of the whistleblower with a view to bringing the case and the culprits to account, and appropriate measures to protect Amb. Dauda from further life threatening, harassment and intimidation.
“He should also be recalled with his full benefit and further recognised as a whistle blower.
While anticipating your urgent action on this matter, please accept the assurances of our esteemed consideration, “the petitioners declared.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment