Share this on WhatsApp

Ruling party on the path to democracy renaissance




 By SUNDAY ODIBASHI
The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is intensifying preparations for its national convention to elect members of the national Working Committee (NWC) and other Executive members with mandate to lead the party in the next four years.
The APC had earlier written the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) notifying it of the party’s preparations for an elective national convention. Thereafter, the party fixed May 24, 2018, for the convention after states congresses have been held within the time frame.
The forthcoming national convention will restore internal democracy if conducted with transparency and further place APC on the path top democracy renaissance like the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) after the December 2017 national convention where party leaders were elected in transparent electoral process.
Details of the nomination process of delegates to the APC National Convention as spelt out by the Convention Planning Committee are as follows:

Members of the Board of Trustees;
National Chairman and all Members of the National Executive Committee;

iii. Serving and past Presidents and Vice Presidents of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria who are Members of the Party;

Serving and past Governors and Deputy Governors of States of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria who are members of the Party;
Serving and past members of the National Assembly who are members of the
Party, serving and past Speakers, Deputy Speakers and other principal officers of the State Houses of Assembly, and all serving members of the State Houses of Assembly who are members of the Party.
Members of the States’ Working Committee (including that of the Federal
Capital Territory, Abuja) of the Party.

vii. All Party Chairmen and Secretaries of the Local Government Areas/Area
Councils of the country;
viii. All elected Local Government Council/Area Council Chairmen of the country
who are members of the Party;

Three elected delegates (at least one of whom must be a woman) from each
Local Government Area/Area Council of the country.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment