Share this on WhatsApp




The citing of Naomi Campbell with President Muhammadu Buhari in Lagos during the two days visit to the state generated controversies and wide fear of international whoredom in the country.
several Nigerians took to the social media, essentially, Twitter  and Facebook, to accuse the renowned model and beauty queen, Naomi Campbell, of being a sex worker who was flown into the African continent to torment the most populous country in Africa and “warm up” President Muhammadu Buhari’s bed.
Ms. Campbell, already involved in a diamond controversy with former Liberian President, Charles Taylor, is in Nigeria for ARISE Fashion Week in the heart of Lagos.
It was gathered that when she was seen with President Buhari exchanging pleasantries in smiling pictures while the Nigerian President visited the multibillion N Eko Atlantic City site in Lagos, Nigerians were provoked into preparation and conjectures of seductions and whores.
The pictures and videos were said to have triggered conjectures that Campbell was another “Stormy Daniels”, the prostitute who claimed to have had marathon sex with U.S. President, Donald Trump.
Many Nigerians were said to have interpreted the invitation to a presidential tour to mean she was brought into the country by the presidency, and not the organizers of the fashion week.
As insults and abuses directed at the presidency increased, and the description of her as a prostitute escalated, a presidential adviser on social media, Tolu Ogunlesi, was said to have insulted her critics and abusers as “mad”.
Ogunlesi exacerbated the social media war and further deepened the anger. With the situation out of control, Ogunlesi, once the darling of Twitter, but who seems to have lost all credibility after accepting a political appointment that has turned out to be a fiasco, apologized.
Ogunlesi apologetically declared: “I’d like to clarify the tweet of mine that’s gone viral in the last few hours. I would NEVER describe/think of Nigerians, or those who disagree with me, as ‘animals’,” he said in a Facebook post.
“My comments were specific to those who thought it appropriate to denigrate/“slander” Naomi Campbell. The Tweet should have been worded clearer & less provocatively. Lesson learnt. Grateful to all who got in touch to complain/advice. Thank you”.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment