Share this on WhatsApp




The Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) has expressed its interest in partnering with Akwa-Ibom State government on the proposed technology investment forum.
Olusola Teniola President, ATCON during a courtesy visit to the Secretary to Akwa Ibom State Government, Dr. Emmanuel Effiong Ekuwem said the partnership is part of the association’s collaborative initiatives with Akwa-Ibom State.
He said, “As part of our contributions towards making your tenure as the SSG to the Governor of Akwa-Ibom State an unforgettable one, the Association would like to partner with your state to organize an Akwa-Ibom Technology Investment Forum.”
According to him,  the primary objective of the proposed forum is to encourage growth and development in the state through deliberate investment in technology.
The new SSG the Governor of Akwa-Ibom State was a former president of ATCON.
Teniola who led the ATCON NEC on the visit said, “Today, we are fulfilled as one of us is given the opportunity to serve as a secretary to the state government of Akwa-Ibom. This goes to tell us that our efforts as an association are being appreciated by the government of the day especially the governor of Akwa-Ibom State, His Excellency Mr. Udom Gabriel Emmanuel and we are sure that our erudite president would help the state to develop more and take the state to the next level of its achievements.”
Teniola appealed to the SSG in using his office to address some of the challenges facing telcos in the state.
Ekuwem, said his intervention as the new SSG to the Governor of Akwa Ibom has reduced incidence of multiple taxation and harassment from the state.
Ekuwem told the ATCON NEC that he invited all the telecom companies to find out their challenges but, to his great surprise those telecom companies in the state said the state has been very cooperative.
He further stated that the Government of Akwa Ibom knows the importance of broadband as 10% broadband penetration is equivalent to 1.3 % increase in GDP and apart from this, it also enhances productivity and the state has always encouraged telecom companies operating in Akwa Ibom to maintain a higher level of maintenance culture so as to prevent the incidence of mast collapse and malfunctioning of base station in the state.
He said the state also plans to connect all the local governments in the state through broadband and IPTVs are being installed in all government offices to ehance efficiency and effectiveness in the State.
Ekuwem said, “The focus of the government of Akwa Ibom is to have smart classrooms, smart city and smart cities and the state is currently working on electrification projects called Ibom Power and seven local government are expected to enjoy Portable Power Supply in no distant time.”
“The government of the state is also working earnestly to lift boys and girls from the street by ensuring that they have jobs so that they can have a sense of accomplishment as well as contribute their quota to the development of the state.”
Professor Nse Udo Essien, Honourable Commissioner for Science and Technology said the state has an innovation hub which is fully funded by state and the hub is on two storey buildings and it has a total numbers of twenty six companies.
He said the state has computer laboratories and another ten laboratories are under construction.
“The state has the biggest e- library and this e-library has over 4million subscribers and the state is fast migrating from resources based state to a knowledge economy through massive investment in infrastructural facilities that can leap frog the state to one of the leading state in Nigeria.”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment