Share this on WhatsApp

Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has asked members of his new Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM) to get their permanent voter cards (PVCs) and be ready to rescue the country in 2019.

Obasanjo said this on Saturday while inaugurating the Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM) in Oyo state.

He said members should be prepared to handle threats but assured them that he would not abandon them half-way.

“Take note, they will threaten you, but don’t be discouraged. It is only cowards who run away from the war front. Having gone this far, I won’t leave you dry. Get your PVC. I don’t think anybody can threaten me again. Remember I have been to prison for an offence I do not know anything about,” he said.

In what could be seen as an indirect reference to the political situation under Sani Abacha, former military head of state, Obasanjo said: “the God who performed wonders some time ago, will again perform wonders”.

“If anybody wants this situation to continue, his head must be examined. Those of you who have been victimized by the situation and want the situation to continue can’t be friends of Nigeria,” he said.

“Everybody must be determined to rescue Nigeria, it may not be easy, however… We have seen in this country, where five political parties endorsed a single person and God was laughing and knew what he would do. If we are leaving everything to God, we must do our best. Get your PVCs and encourage others.”

 “I don’t think at my age, I should continue to complain and not find solution. It came in my statement on the 3rd of January that CNM was made out of the reality of the situation in Nigeria, deep thought and reasonable consideration. CNM is to find solution to the situation we have found ourselves.”

He also made reference to the letter he wrote to President Muhammadu Buhari in January, saying he is capable of withstanding any situation.

Obasanjo had criticised Buhari severely, asking him not to recontest.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment