Share this on WhatsApp



Lagos State Government has signed a Memorandum of Understanding, MoU with the Department of Sociology, Lagos State University, LASU to collate data of Persons Living with Disabilities, PWDs , in the State.
The MoU, which has the input of all relevant stakeholders aims to capture ages, locations, status of living of PWDs in Lagos, as a way of ensuring that PWDs are properly catered and accounted for in planning.
Speaking at the signing of the MoU in Alausa, Ikeja, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Social Development, Mrs. Joyce Onafowokan said “The MoU becomes so necessary giving the governor’s concern on ensuring everyone is captured in government’s plan of action so as to have a data which will enable government build framework for special persons in the State.”
She expressed optimism that PWDs could equally contribute their quota to the socio-economic stance of Lagos if educated, mentored, counselled and enlightened on their innate ability which validates the saying that ‘there is ability in disability.’
On the decision to choose Lagos State University (LASU) for the data collection, the governor’s aide said the institution has the credibility in research and data collection alongside other social and geometry based projects.
Onafowokan, who charged LASU to swing into direct operation in fulfillment of the project noted that the result of the data collection will be highly instrumental in studying geometrical and population growth of PWDs in Lagos to enable government serve them better.
Responding on behalf of the institution, the Dean of Sociology Department, LASU, Prof. Elias Wahab who appreciated the trust and confidence in the institution, assured government that accurate data of PWDs in the State will be presented to government.
Wahab said the project will be approached with utmost dedication, saying that data collection of a people shows there is a projection on the part of government to provide for its citizens.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment