Share this on WhatsApp



The Social Democratic Party (SDP) has suspended its Adamawa state chairman, Ibrahim Bebetu over what the party described as gross disrespect to constituted authority.
Bebetu suspension was announced by the national working committee of the party on Friday, April 27.
In a press statement signed by the party’s National Deputy Secretary, Simon Adesina, the state’s vice chairman Adamawa north, Danjuma Chikale, will act as the chairman of the party in the state.
Chikale said Bebetu’s suspension followed due process after issues of gross disrespect to the constituted authority was committed by the past chairman.
He accused Bebetu of making unauthorised public announcement cancelling a rally in Yola Adamawa State which has caused embarrassment to the national leadership of the party.
Chikale said the investigation will enable the party have a fair resolution of the crisis and also ensure proper handover of party’s property to the acting chairman.
However, reacting to the news, Bebetu denied knowledge of the purported suspension.
Recall that former President Olusegun’s Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM), Olu Falae and some leaders from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) all have hands in the SDP with the intention of aligning together to push their political agenda in the 2019 election.
Meanwhile National Chairman of the party, Chief Olu Falae has asked Nigerians to stop lamenting over the state of insecurity in the country, but should rather use their votes to kick out the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) out.
Falae stated this during the week, after the meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the SDP held in Abuja.
“We are urging Nigerians to vote out this administration and replace them with a more purposeful SDP administration,” Falae said.
On the outcome of the NEC meeting, Falae said the party looked for ways of restructuring its organs in order to accommodate the high-profile politicians who are joining the party.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment