Share this on WhatsApp




declares unflinching support for his candidature at party’s primary


Scores of the  All Progressives Congress faithfuls in Ifako Ijaiye constituency 01, have lauded the young scion of the late Dr. Olu Adewale fondly called Dr. Jah, for taking a bold step to vie for the Lagos Assembly seat to represent Ifako Ijaiye constituency 01, in the forthcoming general elections.

The people who described Temitope’s aspiration as a ’round peg, in a round hole’ claimed the constituency is in dire need of him just as the current Member Hon. Dayo Saka Fafunmi came into the house at about the same age and now aspiring for a seat in the Green chamber (federal House of Representatives).

Mr. Temitope Adewale Adedeji who was aide to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Son of the late lawmaker representing Ifako Ijaiye federal constituency at the Federal House of Representatives, Hon. Adewale Elijah (aka Dr. Jah), served as a Board Staff with the Lagos State inland Revenue.

Reeling his work experience he said, “I was a civil servant in the ministry of Lands as well as Transport, Governors Office and Chief of Staffs office in Lagos State. I was appointed as S.A to Governor on Budget Deliverables, Office of the Deputy Chief of staff and later appointed as S.S.A to the Governor on Works and Infrastructure.

A party chieftain who pleaded anonymity, said, “TemiTope is extremely loyal, humble and diligent, we besiege him to jettison his aspiration to complete his late father’s tenure at the federal house of representatives, in 2016, without looking back he consented, now it is our time to pay him back, as a youth he had every chance to decline the party leadership proposal and go ahead, but he was able to succumb and toe party line and supported the party’s choice. “We kept eyes on him but he never disappointed us. In fact the empowerment tools his late father couldn’t share amongst constituents before his sudden demise, TemiTope shared all of them and the people were happy, it was part of what made our party coast to victory at the bye election. Now, it is our turn to make him happy, hence, we have to ensure he succeed in his bid to represent us in Alausa as our lawmaker.”



Speaking to over 2,000 people gathered at the party secretariat along Iju road, Fagba, Mr. Adewale Temitope Adedeji (alias ATA) reiterated the voice of the teaming party faithfuls gathered there.
 “The people of Ifako Ijaiye have decided I represent Ifako Ijaiye Constituency 01 in the Lagos State House Of Assembly this is beyond me as they insist it would give room for equity, fairness, justice, service, true representation which would reflect youth inclusion in governance, they are pushing me forward for that seat.
“Now, I am fully ready to give the youth, men, women and aged,3 reasons to see youth as the right choice for governance.”

Speaking further, he said, he has no choice than to obey the clarion call of the constituents in Ifako Ijaiye, as the youth, women, old, elderly and all and sundry in the constituency deserves the best of representation.

While imploring youths to be patient with the party as the government is aware of various challenges facing the nation, he asserted that Nigerian youths are not lazy but working hard to meet numerous needs.

The meeting was presided over by Engr. Akintunde Fadayomi, chairman, All progressives Congress, APC, Ifako Ijaiye. As party chieftains and leaders came out in their numbers.








Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment