Share this on WhatsApp




Revelations from state actors across the country shows that the Nigerians polity has become a theater of corruption and the social relations between the governing and ruling elite in Nigeria is being regulated by corruption.
While the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is being demonized by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to have looted Nigeria’s treasury, the membership data of political parties in Nigeria today shows that APC has inherited the endemic corruption culture, yet, has remained protectionist of suspected looters within the fold of the ruling party.
The crossfire between the two dominant political parties generates national concerns that APC and PDP appear to be inn strong competition in corruption. Apparently, stakeholders in the Nigerian project are beginning to ask the question –   Who actually looted Nigeria for 16 years?
Public analytic indicates that out of 24 APC governors today, 22 were members of the PDP that ruled for 16 years.
As if that is not enough, 20 former PDP governors are now in APC and many of them with corruption cases but President Buhari’s corruption fight excluded them.
Some other teasers postulate:-
Do you also know that:
1. The first and current APC Senate President was in PDP?
2. The first APC Speaker of the House of Representatives was also in PDP?
3. Three out of five former Speakers of the House of Representatives under PDP are now in APC?
3. A former PDP senate president is also in APC?
4. Two former national Chairmen of PDP are also now in APC?
5. Thousands of current APC legislators at both state and national levels were in PDP?
6. Hundreds of current APC ministers and commissioners today were in PDP?
7. Thousands of other former PDP leaders and members including former ministers, legislators, commissioners, etc are now in APC?
Now, who are the PDP members that APC keeps referring to that looted the nation’s treasury for 16 years?
Current APC Governors that Migrated from PDP:
1. Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State was a PDP Senator.
2. Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State was FCT Minister under the PDP.
3. Governor Aminu Masari of Kastina State was a Former House of Representatives speaker under the PDP.
4. Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State was a PDP Former Commissioner.
5. Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto was a Former PDP Speaker of the House of Representatives.
6. Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed of Kwara State was a Commissioner and Governor under PDP.
7. Governor Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State was in PDP.
8. Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State was also in PDP.
9. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State was in PDP.
10. Governor Samuel Orthom of Benue State was a PDP Minister.
11. Governor Tanko Al-Makura of Nasarawa State was in PDP.
12. Governor Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi State was a Former PDP Senator.
13. Governor Bindow Jubrilla of Adamawa State was a Former PDP Senator.
14. Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State was in PDP.

Former PDP Governors now in APC:
1. Aliyu Wammako – Sokoto
2. Rabiu Kwankwaso – Kano
3. Sai’du Dakingari – Kebbi
4, Bukola Saraki – Kwara
5.  Murtal Nyako – Adamawa
6. Rotimi Amaechi – Rivers
7. Temiprye Sylva – Bayelsa
8. Sullivan Chime – Enugu
9.  Obong Victor Attah – Akwa-Ibom
10. Chris Ngige – Anambra
11. Joshua Dariye – Plateau
12.  George Akume – Benue
13. Adamu Abdullahi – Nasarawa
14. Orji Uzor Kalu- Abia
15. Oserheimen Osunbor – Edo
16. Segun Oni – Ekiti
17. Alao Akala – Oyo
18. Danjuma Goje – Gombe
19. Olagunsoye Oyinlola – Osun
20. Garba Umar – Taraba
Some stakeholders argued that anybody who says PDP members looted the nation’s treasury and are corrupt is distorting the facts and, therefore, a shameless/barefaced liar, innately corrupt, fraudulent, self-centred, deceptive, wicked, broad day robber, oppressive and has no decency and humanity in them. Are these the kind of people that should rule a nation, they asked.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment