Share this on WhatsApp


The Vice-Chancellor of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Eyitope Ogunbodede, has promised that decisive action would be taken against those found culpable in the sex-for-marks scandal rocking the school.

Recall that a leaked telephone conversation on Monday implicated one Richard Akindele, a Professor of the University, demanded sex to award pass mark to an unidentified female student who failed a course.

While the Professor at the eye of the storm is yet to publicly speak on the scandal, Professor Ogunbodede said no one found culpable of this serious misconduct of sexual harassment would go unpunished.

In a statement signed on Wednesday, the Vice-Chancellor said a breach of regulations of the university’s code of conduct is responsible for the scandal.

He added that the university had begun the process of identifying the persons involved.

“The attention of the authorities of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife has been drawn to an audio recording, now trending on the social media, of a telephone conversation ostensibly between one Professor Akindele and a female student of the university,” the statement read.

“The recording suggests that the lecturer was demanding sex in return for grade which clearly amounts to sexually harassing the lady.

“Since the matter came to our notice, the University has begun the process of identifying the characters involves in this apparent breach of its regulations, the Code of Conduct for the University Community and the Anti-sexual Harassment policy, in full compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and procedures of the University.

Professor Ogunbodede said the university has set up a high-powered committee to investigate the allegation and submit its report within one week, noting that anyone found culpable will be dealt with decisively.

“I wish to assure the general public that Obafemi Awolowo University has zero tolerance for sexual harassment. The University considers sexual harassment as a serious offence contrary to its Code of Conduct for the University community and against the Anti-sexual harassment policy of the university. It is totally and morally reprehensible, and the university will never condone such act by any staff or student,” he said.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment