Share this on WhatsApp
The national leadership of the ruling APC  has decided to hold congresses across the nation, thereby heating up the race for the party’s national chair.

In the move to replace John Oyegun are his kinsman and former Gov. Adams Oshiomohle, ex-Senate President Ken Nnamani, Minister of Science and Technology Ogbonnaya Onu,
and Cross Rivers former former Governor Clement Ebri.

The APC governors haven’t decided whom to support yet because the most pressing issue for now is the organisation of the congresses to elect new officers, especially the appointment of who will chair the national convention.

Sources close to the governors said they were more concerned about who would preside over the party’s national convention and those who would be in the committee.

The governors prefer one of their own to lead the congress, sources said. And they might have their way.

Oyegun’s abrupt removal has plunged the party into this quandary, and it hurts his supporters that the conspiracy came from the very people close to him—President Muhammadu Buhari, and even his state chapter of the party.

National leader Bola Tinubu was instrumental in installing Oyegun as chairman in 2014.

But the Ondo primary debacle set a wedge between them, leading to Tinubu’s opposition to his chairmanship, and even the purported elongation that Buhari eventually scuttled.

If Tinubu’s influence is still anything to reckon with, analysts believe chances are that Oshiomohle may clinch the party chair.

Tinubu and the Edo former governor have been in alliances since 2007 when the Lagos ex-governor supported him om  the platform of the ACN to realise his guber ambition.

They, however, had a tiff over who should chair the mega party APC  in 2014. Oshiomohle wanted Tom Ikim, who defected from the PDP, but Tinubu ensured Oyegun made it.

But Oshiomohle’s ambition to chair the party after eight years as governor could have brought him back to the party’s most acknowleged strategist, after all Edo APC was no longer in sync with Oyegun.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment