Share this on WhatsApp









FCMB has opened its fourth Flexx Hub at the Lagos State Polytechnic, Ikorodu in other to cater for the banking needs of the students on campus.

Flexx Hub is a specially designed automated branch that serves as an exclusive banking arena, where basic banking transactions can be carried out by the customers, who hold its youth account, also known as Flexx.

The Executive Director, Business Development of FCMB, Mrs. Bukola Smith, said that the development will go a long way to promote financial inclusion among the students, surrounding academic institutions and communities.

“What the establishment of FCMB Flexx Hub has brought to the fore for our teeming young customers is to see banking as simple. We want them to adopt mainstream financial services early in life in our financial inclusion campaign, while using the Flexx Hub as a vehicle.

Smith added that the FCMB Flexx proposition is not just to own an account, but to develop a lifestyle platform that offers individual customers, varied experiences that are centred on Fun, Future and Banking (FFB).
 
 
The Rector of LASPOTECH, Samuel Sogunro, expressed gratitude to FCMB for bringing its excellent banking services to the school, saying that the bank has been tremendously supporting the institution.

“For the bank to set up this mini branch in the school is another proof that it is a friend and a partner in progress. I urge staff, students and people around this community to make use of this opportunity because it will go a long way to resolve the challenges encountered when it comes to financial transactions,” he said.

Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor on Education, Obafela Bank-Olemoh, said the setting up of the Flexx Hub and all the positive things associated with it is another step in the right direction by FCMB. We commend the bank for all its contributions to the development of youths and education in Lagos.

FCMB at the opening also handed over the main gate of the institution, which it reconstructed as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives to the management of the school.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment