Share this on WhatsApp
 
Kogi youths have reportedly boycotted polling units in Kogi state as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) commenced the recall process of Senator Dino Melaye on Saturday.

National Daily gathered that no one showed up at Akafe Lane polling unit, one of the units in the district, despite INEC officials arriving at the centre as early as 6:45 am on Saturday.

It was observed that many of the polling units were empty, with many people claiming that they were not aware of it. At some areas, youth protested against the move to recall the senator who they described as “an excellent representative”.

An NYSC member, Opemipo Solomon, the INEC officer at Akafe Lane polling unit, said that no one had showed up since they arrived the voting venue at 6.45 a.m.

He said: “No one has come to sign the recall papers; what we have had so far are threats from people asking us leave this place.
Another corps member, David Adah, INEC presiding officer at the Odo Akete polling unit also in Kabba, said that many youth were angry over the recall process.

He said: “Most of the youths, who saw their names among those that signed for the recall of Melaye, have disowned the signatures and insisted that they are happy with the Senator.

At the embattled senator’s polling unit in Ayetoro Gbede, a traditional ruler, Ojo Adekunle, who led some youth to protest against the recall process, said they were not aware of Melaye’s offence.

“Melaye has done so well and we are happy with him; we have no reason to want to recall him.”

Adekunle said Melaye was the best Senator Kogi west had ever produced, and urged his people not to betray their representative at this trying period.

Vicoria Ajewole, APC Woman Leader in Kabba Local Government, expressed surprise at the recall process, and declared that “it won’t work.”

At the central area of Kabba town, youth were seen chanting songs in praise of Melaye. They vowed to resist attempt to disgrace him.

Efforts to speak with INEC officials at the commission’s office in Kabba proved abortive as they refused to comment on the exercise Policemen keeping watch at the polling points also refused to comment on the exercise.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment