Share this on WhatsApp

Former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-kayode has described the looters list released by the Federal Government on Sunday as “nonsensical and utterly shameful”, saying the list cannot be complete without the names of Buhari, Osinbajo, Tinubu and several others who looted their state funds to campaign for Buhari in 2015.

In the second list released on Sunday, Fani-Kayode was alleged to have collected N866 million illegally.

He rejected his inclusion in the controversial list, denying collecting “one kobo” from any government official during the period ex-President Goodluck Jonathan was in power.

“The federal government’s claim that I looted 800,000,000 naira from government coffers is false,” Fani-Kayode said.

“The fact of the matter is that no looters list is complete without the names of Muhammadu Buhari, Yemi Osinbajo, Rotimi Ameachi, Tunde Fashola, Bola Tinubu, Lai Mohammed, Adamu Abdullahi, Dambazau, Kayode Fayemi, Babachir Lawal, Maina, Maikanto Baru, Burutai, all APC Governors and other key members of the Buhari administration and the APC,” he said.

“It is common knowledge that the Buhari campaign in 2015 was funded by moneys that can be traced directly to the state governments of Rivers state, Lagos state, Kano state, Ogun state and a number of other key APC states yet not one of those involved or that governed any of those states at the time have been questioned, arrested or prosecuted by the EFCC or the federal government.

“I blame Vice-President Osinbajo who, as a professor of Law and a learned SAN, should know better and who I am reliably informed is the coordinator of all these politically-motivated, baseless and malicious corruption cases which are being conducted against opposition members by the EFCC.

 “One day, whether he believes it or not, there will be a reckoning for his wickedness just as there will be one for Buhari and his entire government. God will see to that and He will judge and punish them.”

“The money that I received was given to me by the Director of Finance of the Jonathan Campaign Organisation, Mrs. Esther Nenadi Usman, before the election in 2015 and it was specifically for the conduct of the presidential election. These were private funds and not public funds and neither can anyone expect us to have run an election in 2015 without any money. You do not run election campaigns with sand but with money.”

He claimed the list was an attempt by the APC to “silence and discredit” the opposition.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment