Share this on WhatsApp

Following the shameful incident on Wednesday where suspected thugs disrupted proceedings at the Senate, carting away the Mace, the Senate has resolved to invite IGP and Director General of SSS, Lawal Daura to give a brief on their findings concerning the mace theft incident.

After more than an hour of closed-door session on Thursday, April 19, the presiding officer, Ike Ekweremadu, confirmed the discovery and retrieval of the mace.

Ekweremadu said: “This hallowed chamber supported by the House of Representatives demanded that the Inspector-General of Police recover and return the stolen mace to the Senate within 24 hours. Concerned colleagues and Nigerians who wanted to find out if the mace has been found have inundated me with calls and messages since last night. “Let me therefore formally confirm to you that the mace has been recovered and returned by the police as demanded by this hallowed chamber.”

He said the lawmakers have resolved that appropriate sanctions be meted out to all security personnel and persons linked to the incident.

Ekweremadu remarked: “Nevertheless, we believe there should be consequences for bad behaviour. We swore to uphold the laws of Nigeria and the principles of rule of law. It still beats the imagination of Nigerians and the civilised world that the attackers passed through several security checks and barriers of the National Assembly and gained access into this chamber and also escaped with the mace into the thin air despite the well-known fortified surroundings of this parliament.”

“We therefore call on the Inspector-General of Police and DG SSS to ensure that all those who plotted, aided, abetted and executed this dastardly affront on our democracy and belittled Nigeria before the international community must be brought to book to serve as deterrence to others. We will be inviting them next week to brief us.”

National Daily learnt that the protesters left the National Assembly with the mace, which is a symbol of authority of the parliament, in a black SUV.

Meanwhile, the stolen Mace which was later found under a bridge in Abuja was handed over to Mohammed Sani-
Omolori, the clerk of the National Assembly by Habila Joshak, a Deputy Inspector- General of Police.

Some protesters had stormed the Senate chamber on Wednesday, April 18, and stole the mace.

The protesters were supporters of a suspended senator, Ovie Omo-Agege.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment