Share this on WhatsApp

By Odunewu Segun

Diamond Bank has launched an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Chabot, leveraging pioneering technology to reach more customers with an enhanced service in Nigeria.

The Chatbot named ‘Ada’ uses AI technology to provide a human-like interaction and personalized experience for Diamond Bank customers.

The chatbot enables transactions such as airtime purchase, bill payments, stock trading, and money transfers all via a social network platform. Already live on Facebook Messenger, Ada will also be on other messaging platforms in the coming months.

It will also give Diamond the opportunity to reach millions of people, and facilitate financial inclusion on an extraordinary scale, extending Diamond’s reach into Nigeria’s massive retail opportunity. Diamonds existing customers can already start chatting to Ada.

Ada is also an ideal solution to Nigeria’s evolving lifestyle trends which have moved towards preferences for mobile and digitally delivered services, as well as the use of natural language.

Commenting on the launch of Ada, Uzoma Dozie, CEO of Diamond Bank said: “I believe data and technology has the power to transform Nigeria’s economy, so I am excited to announce the launch of Diamond’s Artificial Intelligence (AI) powered Chatbot named Ada.”
 
“Ada will allow us to further digitize the mobile banking process and create an increasingly customized mobile banking experience for our millions of customers, Ada also presents another opportunity to deepen financially literacy and build trust and transparency in our ecosystem.”

He said with a foundation of over 15 million customers, the new AI-driven Chatbot, Ada, will enable the bank expands its digital-led strategy, and reach even more people across Nigeria through mobile banking.

Some of the key Diamond Bank initiatives include supporting Nigeria’s future business leaders through its Building Entrepreneurs Today (BET) programme and upcoming Tech Fest in April, improving financial inclusion by focusing on increasing female participation in the formal economy and the roll out of its Diamond Y’ello mobile banking service, which now has over 9 million users.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment