Share this on WhatsApp



To complement the burgeoning car sales and the need to ensure Kia customers’ get the best out of their car, Kia Motors Nigeria has built a new state-of-the-art service centre to offer best-in-class service delivery to customers.
The upgraded Kia Plaza promises to be one of the biggest service centres in the country with 81 service bays built to the exact standard of service facilities across the globe.

Located at 118, along the busy Oshodi- Apapa Expressway, in Isolo, Lagos, the new facility has much greater exposure to the adjoining Dana House along the expressway.

Managed by certified professionals, the full-fledged KIA Plaza also has an ultra-modern body shop amongst other technical sessions to offer an exclusive range of personalised after-sales service for customers. 
In addition, customers who visit the plaza from the 3rd to 13th of April will get a free vehicle health and loads of other surprises at the plaza.

With a one of its kind see-through customer lounge, Kia Motors Nigeria prides itself on a transparent and fair service delivery and above all, allows customers to have an experience and a feel of how their cars are repaired.

 The Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Sanjay Tatpati stated that “the unflinching resolve to provide outstanding offerings and exceptional after-sales service has always reinforced the need to upgrade the Kia Plaza. To ensure your vehicle continues to perform at its best, our new ultra-modern Kia Plaza has the tools, equipment, and experienced professionals to maintain your vehicle and conduct any necessary repairs that may be required. We also guarantee that only genuine Kia parts are used to ensure the smooth operation of your vehicle for years to come.”
 
Aligning with Kia’s global trajectory in Nigeria, the company has over the years distinguished itself in the industry and hinged its business operations on providing exceptional customer service to meet the ever-increasing demands of customers.

Kia’s growth in Nigeria is premised on a clear strategy for competitive pricing and its delivery of exceptional customer experiences. Having been the first company to offer a 5-year warranty to its Nigerian customers, the brand’s quality and service offering is second to none and has over the years place the Kia brand in the top echelon of car brands in Nigeria.







Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment