Share this on WhatsApp



An anti-corruption group, Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has hailed the decision of President Muhammadu Buhari to re-contest in 2019, describing it as “good news for anti-graft war.’’
CACOL’s Chairman, Mr Debo Adeniran, commended the president’s decision in an interview with newsmen in Lagos.
The President had declared his intention to seek another term on Monday while speaking at a National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abuja.
The declaration ended months of speculation about whether the President would seek  re-election or not.
Reacting, Adeniran said the declaration was a good development, as it would afford the President more time to consolidate on his achievements in the anti-corruption fight.
Adeniran said that no Nigerian president had fought corruption as fiercely as Buhari, saying a second term would ensure the sustenance of the anti-graft fight momentum.
“The President’s declaration is good news, especially for the fight against corruption.
“The way Buhari has fought corruption in the country is unprecedented, in fact, no president has done better.
“Therefore another term will enable the President to have more time to consolidate on some of the achievements he has recorded in the fight.
“You know when you fight corruption, corruption fights back.
“The current fight would have achieved much more, if not for sabotage by some corrupt elements.
“We sincerely believe that the president will use another term to perfect the fight and declare total victory against corrupt elements,’’ he said.
Adeniran said the impunity with which people perpetrated corrupt acts in the past had reduced under Buhari’s administration.
He explained that public servants had to think twice before looting or stealing money as they now lived with the fear of being caught.
Adeniran said the President had also done well in the area of security, especially the fight against insurgents.
“We believe that by the time the president finishes his work on corruption and security, whoever will come after him will not have so much to do in these areas,’’ he said.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment