Share this on WhatsApp




A former Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Power, Godknows Igali, says the Federal Government is targeting all former aides of former President Goodluck Jonathan.
Igali whose names appeared on the second list of ‘looters’ released by Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed said he knew with the former President Goodluck Jonathan’s loss of the election and peaceful exit from office in 2015, most of aides, especially himself, would suffer and carry lots of crosses.
“So, they have continued to pursue without relenting. Yes, some of us are victims and scapegoats. It’s all unfair and ungodly! But then, these and many more afflictions will come like floods and pass. There is nothing new under the sun. So it is well, indeed!”
In the 23-man list released by Lai Mohammed, minister of information, on Sunday, Igali, was said to have looted over N7 billion.
“My attention has been drawn to a publication and electronic broadcasts attributed to Lai Mohammed, minister of information, listing persons connected with PDP considered to have ‘looted’ various sums from government treasury, and that such sums have been recovered from them,” he wrote on Facebook.
“On account of my background, I am normally taciturn, but I cannot keep silent against such weighty unfounded allegation. Not surprisingly, my name was smuggled to the list, against a whopping ‘loot’ of N7Billion. I understand Godknows Igali was dragged in last minute to create the needed effect. After all, he’s one of Jonathan’s main men.
“For the avoidance of doubt, this is totally false, as no amount whatsoever has been recovered from me or traced to me. Indeed, N7billion recovered from which accounts, which banks and when?
The former Permanent Secretary lamented that it was the third time the present government has hit the headlines with such “negative news” about him since 2016.
“Coincidentally, all the three occasions were during festive periods. Most prominent is the tale of 45 SUVs supposedly found in my compound, which everyone now knows was a fabrication and fake news,” he said.
“It is now common knowledge that the vehicles in question were leftovers from the erstwhile Jonathan-Sambo campaign bought with a bank loan and confiscated from the premises of a known business concern that is not connected whatsoever with me. The loan is now being recovered forcefully and perhaps being termed a ‘loot’.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment