Share this on WhatsApp



The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with RecyclePoints Limited for the collection and recycling of waste materials generated at The Exchange’s offices, saying the initiative is a demonstration of the Exchange’s effort to ‘End Plastic Pollution’, which is the theme of this year’s Earth Day.
The Exchange, as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) drive, is always seeking innovative ways to reduce its environmental footprint. In line with this objective, NSE has engaged RecyclePoints for the collection and recycling of waste materials generated at its offices, starting with Lagos and Ibadan, under RecyclePoints’ Corporate Recycling Program. The NSE commenced an internal workplace recycling program in 2013.
Speaking at the signing ceremony of the MoU, Mr. Bola Adeeko, Head, Shared Services Division, NSE said, “As a sustainable stock exchange, we are committed to supporting the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals as it relates to responsible production and consumption. In addition, environmental sustainability is one of our key CSR pillars and we believe that reducing the waste we send to the landfills through effective recycling is good for the environment and for the economy as well. By sorting our waste and sending applicable items such as paper, plastic and glass etc. for recycling, we are creating jobs for the recycling sector and helping industries save cost on essential raw materials, while actively protecting the environment.
NSE averred that as a leader in the African business space, we are confident that this move will encourage other businesses to embrace corporate recycling, thereby igniting a good waste management culture across board.”
In his remarks, the Chief Executive Officer, Recyclepoints Limited, Mr. Mazi Ukonu said, “We at RecyclePoints are very delighted that The Nigerian Stock Exchange, as a responsible corporate citizen, has taken this bold step to implement a Corporate Recycling Program through our platform, thus further strengthening the achievement of its sustainability and environmental commitments”.
“There has been a global call for corporate entities to create shared value and explore solving social issues as opportunities for competitive advantage. Signing this MoU exemplifies NSE’s strategic plan in finding innovate avenues of helping to solve social problems”. He also called on entities quoted on the Exchange to emulate NSE by subscribing to RecyclePoints’ Corporate Recycling Program.
RecyclePoints is a waste recycling and social benefit company that motivates people to recycle their everyday waste by creating value from recycled products and operating incentive based schemes.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment