Share this on WhatsApp



The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Sunday challenged President Muhammadu Buhari to give an account of his ministers and other government officials who abandoned their scheduled meeting with investors in the United States for other leisure purposes.
PDP in a statement in Abuja by the National Publicity Secretary, Hon. Kola Oogbondiyan.  on Sunday, declared:  “this embarrassing development is indeed a clear reflection of the recklessness and laissez-faire attitude of the Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration towards governance, resulting in the biting economic recession and others woes plaguing our nation under President Buhari’s watch.
“It is now clear to Nigerians why the APC and its incompetent Federal Government have not been able to attract any meaningful Foreign Direct Investment to the country in the last three years of President Buhari’s administration. Instead, the ones it inherited are pulling out.
“How can APC government officials sent to attend investors’ meetings abandon their duties and engage in personal leisure abroad? Painfully, they blame everybody but themselves for the choking economic situation of the country in the last three years.
“PDP holds that these government officials had the temerity to pursue personal interests across the United State because they knew that even if their atrocious act were brought to the attention of Mr. President, he will claim that he is not aware.
“This is more so as Mr. President himself brought no dividend from the Commonwealth Head of Government Meeting (CHOGM), where he de-marketed our nation with negative utterances.
“We, therefore, urge the National Assembly to spare no rods but to immediately summon the ministers named in the saga, including Dr. Audu Ogbeh (Agriculture), Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu (Science and Technology), Alhaji Lai Mohammed (Information) Babatunde Fashola (Power), Dr. Ibe Kachikwu (Minister of State for Petroleum Resources), Kemi Adeosun (Finance) and Kayode Fayemi (Solid minerals).
“It is now clear to all that the APC does not have the interest of our country at heart and Nigerians must spare no efforts in joining forces with the PDP to vote them out and reinstate a purposeful and productive administration, come 2019.”
The ministers were said to have abandoned the foreign investors and went on a shopping spree in highbrow shops of the United States, at the time Nigerians were looking up to them to negotiate deals and bring in investments into the country.
Unfortunately, the President who participated in the Summit committed a diplomatic flaw in his statement on Nigerians youths who he said are uneducated, do nothing but expect education, housing free because Nigeria is an oil producing country. The statement has sparked monumental controversies across the country.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment