Share this on WhatsApp



The African continent was thrown into mourning with the death of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, on Monday in Johannesburg.
Besides President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria, President of Kenya Uhuru Kenyatta expressed that he was saddened with the news of the death of Madela’s wife.
“This evening, I learned that Winnie Madikizela-Mandela had left us. The news is saddening, for we have lost a heroine and a liberator,” Kenyatta had declared in a statement.
Kenyatta further declared:  “Though born before formal apartheid, she came of age in state devoted to White domination. She chose a life of service and valour, qualifying as a nurse, and devoting herself to the struggle for African liberty.
“She soon met Nelson Mandela, with whom she had a family, and whose partner in the fight for liberation she became. When he was jailed, she continued the fight — against incredible odds — and held her family together, even when she was exiled, jailed and continually tormented by the apartheid state.
“In the end, her courage was rewarded: she lived to see Mandela free; she lived to see her country liberated; and she went on to serve a free South Africa until her death.
“In the second half of the 20th century, Africa won its liberty. We who have it can scarcely understand the trials of those who fought for it. In the life of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who endured and won, we see plainly what our freedom cost. May her courage inspire us to make the most of the liberty she won for us; may her family be comforted by the memory of her heroic life; and may she rest in perpetual peace.”
More so, Nigeria’s Former Minister of Finance, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, described Winnie as “a towering figure of African womanhood and activism”.
“Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, is dead. We grew up admiring her courage and got older appreciating her challenges. She will be missed,” she wrote in a Facebook post.
South Africans have continued to hold processions in front of the residence of Winnie Mandela since her death on Monday.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment