Share this on WhatsApp



President Muhammadu Buhari has admitted the failure of the federal Government to rescue the 112 Chibok Secondary School girls from the Boko Haram den, after about 106 girls were celebrated to have been released.
In a statement by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, on the commemoration of the fourth anniversary of the abduction at Chibok Girls Secondary School, Borno State, on April 14, 2014, President Buhari acknowledged that the talks with Boko Haram to free the girls had run into some hitches because of the divisions in the terrorists ranks.
“Unfortunately, the negotiations between the government and Boko Haram suffered some unexpected setbacks, owing mainly to a lack of agreement among their abductors, whose internal differences have led to a divergence of voices regarding the outcome of the talks,” the president admitted.
 “We know that this is not the news parents want to hear after four whole years of waiting, but we want to be as honest as possible with you.
“However, this government is not relenting. We will continue to persist, and the parents should please not give up,” Buhari said.
He assured parents of the schoolgirls that “their daughters will never be forgotten or abandoned to their fate”.
President Buhari said government would continue its efforts to ensure the safe return of the girls to their respective homes despite that it has been four long years since they were taken away by the terrorists.
He encouraged the parents to keep their hopes alive on the return of their daughters; remarking that the recovery of more than 100 of the girls through the Federal Government’s determined effort should give confidence that all “hope is not lost”.
 “We are concerned and aware that it is taking long to bring the rest of our daughters back home, but be assured that this administration is doing its very best to free the girls from their captors.
“Don’t give up hope of seeing our daughters back home again. Don’t lose faith in this government’s ability to fulfil our promise of reuniting you with our daughters.
“Don’t imagine for a moment that we have forgotten about our daughters or that we consider their freedom a lost course,” Buhari stated.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment