Share this on WhatsApp

Wife of Ekiti state Governor,Mrs Feyisetan Fayose has warned the antagonists of the continuity agenda of the present administration in the state not to obstruct  the work of God as consequence of this would be too much for such  category of people, just as she has revealed what God has told her about the political future of her husband.

According to the statement issued by the Special Assistant(Media) to the wife of Governor, Gbenga Ariyibi, Mrs Fayose was speaking in Ado Ekiti yesterday during the new year thank given service, said God has revealed to him long time ago that her husband was going for position of authority higher than the one he was presently holding.

Though, Mrs Fayose said God did not revealed to her  the time and the position God has planned  for her husband,noted that the words of God was too sacrosant that would manifest at all cost.

It may be noted that Mrs Fayose had in the past  predicted at two different times and occasions the coming to power of her husband even, when he, Fayose was  sent away from Government House in 2006.

ALSO SEE: Ambode assures 2018 holds great promises for Lagosians

“I want to plead with everyone, don’t hunt for downfall of this government, don’t even try it, God is looking at you, and God is watching, don’t hunt for the failure of continuity. Why, because our God is God of continuity, our leader is carrying the unusual grace, if you don’t want to be disgrace, don’t hunt for the downfall of this government, don’t hunt for the failure of continuity. I have said my own.”

She continued; “It is not him, it’s God through him. Look beyond him, and let’s continue to work together in unity.

“God told me expressly, years back, that he needed Ayo Fayose in Nigeria.

“What brought about this was that, I was praying that the trouble of this man was too much, that I wanted God to take politics away from him, to separate him from politics, that I have had too much.

“But God said, ‘Leave him to me, he is in the hollow of my palm, l need him in Nigeria, it is not only Ekiti. He is just passing through Ekiti State.”

Mrs. Fayose, who prayed fervently for the peace, progress and continuity agenda of the her husband’s administration, said no amount of “gang up or political manipulation” would alter or shake her husband from the good plan God has in stock for him and the people of the state.

Those at the thanksgiving service included the Deputy Governor, Prof. Kolapo Olusola; his wife, Janet; the Chief of Staff, Dipo Anisulowo; Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Modupe Alade; Head of Service, Dr. Gbenga Faseluka, notable traditional rulers, political office holders, market women and top government officials.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment