Political leaders, federal lawmakers are beginning to sign on to the Coalition for Nigeria former President Olusegun Obasanjo proposed in the verbal missile he hurled against President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling APC on Tuesday.



“At the last count, seven governors, 20 senators and over 100 House of Representatives members have agreed in principle with Baba to go into this coalition,” a close associate of the former president told the Premium Times in an exclusive report after Obasnajo’s letter hit the news.

Having declared the ruling party and the PDP opposition as wobbling, Obasanji mooted an a non-partisan “Third Force” he said he is ready to be part of—a coalition that will help steer the country away from the rock.

Obasanjo, in his 13-pager, discredited the current government, pointing outs nepotism, condonation, clannishness, and mismanagement of the economy. He, howeverm admitted Buhari has performed fairly well in security and anti-corruption.

He also warned the president to have an “honourable” dismount from the horse come 2019 since Nigeria cannot endure another four-year term he called a “prison term” under Buhari.

Those in the know according to the report, said Obasanjo had sought audience with the president time and again over all the concerns raised in the open letter. And as it appeared that was nit going to change anything, he decoded, after consultation far and wide, to go public with it.

Aso Rock kas responded, appreciating Obasajo’s concerns, and pointing to him how much the administration has performed, and how the former president may not have observed this because of his globe-trotting.
However, mixed reactions have trailed the letter.

While the PDP said Obasanjo’s letter was patriotic, and an indication the APC has nothing to offer, ot however rejected the alternative he floated.

“It would amount to repeating the same blunder that brought in the ideologically vacuous APC and the Buhari Presidency which has now wreaked havoc on the nation in its almost three years of governance”.

Others criticised the former president for his holier-than-thou character, and obsession with the public space as an elder statesman.

For now, the CN adopters still like to keep their members secret.
 









			
			Post Views: 
			142