Nigerians living in South Africa came under fresh attacks on Saturday as a mob destroyed four shops and several houses belonging to Nigerians at Krugersdorp, near Johannesburg.
Recall that a 27-year old Nigerian based in South Africa was reportedly shot earlier this morning by suspected Policemen.
Bartholomew Eziagulu, chairman of the Nigerians in Kwazulu Natal province of South Africa was quoted as saying two police officers in mufti forcefully gained access to the victim’s house at Campbell Street in Durban at 2am on Friday.
 “When he refused, he was handcuffed, taken outside and shot dead. The officers took away his cell phone, e-passport and other valuable documents. The relative of the victim was tortured and robbed of his belongings while a third victim, a South African, was also robbed.”
This latest attacks, Cyril James, Ward Chairman of the Nigerian Union in the area said the attacks began on January 18.
ALSO SEE: 27-year old Nigerian shot dead in South Africa
James said the mob alleged that a Nigerian abducted a South African girl and raped her.
“The South Africans attacked our homes and shops, destroyed all we have. Many Nigerians suffered severe injuries during the attack. We have left our homes for safety because they (South Africans) are regrouping to attack us again,” he said.
Adetola Olubajo, President of the Union, said the situation in the area was bad.
“I can confirm that Nigerians in the area have been attacked. I am amazed and emotionally down as calls from panicked Nigerians flooded my phone from various provinces,” he said.
Olubajo said two Nigerians had been killed in South Africa in Rustenburg and Durban since the attacks began. “Two Nigerians have been killed, many displaced and injured in fresh xenophobic attacks and extra-judicial killing,” he said.
Two weeks ago, more than five Nigerian owned shops and houses were burnt at Rustenburg, north-west province by taxi drivers.
The drivers alleged that Nigerians sold drugs to a gang that attacked their members and that a Nigerian abducted and raped a 16-year old South African girl.
 
 

			
			PV: 
			0