Share this on WhatsApp

By Kingsley Chukwuka, Jos














In compliance with the Federal government campaign to encourage local industries with the aim to also reduce the unemployment ratio in the country, a Jos based industrialists, Ambassador Uba Nelson Nkparu has set up a pipe manufacturing company in Plateau with a workforce of over 200 staff on pay role.

Speaking with newsmen yesterday in Jos, Amb. Nkparu who is also the Managing Director and CEO, NELMACO Global Resources, said, “being and indigenous companyqa\a1q that is passionate about creating employment for Nigerians, all our staff members are Nigerians who are drawn from different ethnic groups, and their welfare and safety is as important to us as the products we push to the public.

“In view of our rapid growth, we continue to employ capable hands who partner with management to take the company to new heights”, he said.

 The company which produce the high quality Unplasticized Polyvinyl Chloride (UPVC) Pipes,  Poly Vinyl Chloride (PVC) Pipes, PVC Ceiling, Borehole Pipes, Conduit Pipes, Water Tanks and Prepaid Water Meyers, is also seeking to partner with state government to further expand and create more job opportunities to the teeming youths aimed at halting youth restiveness and poverty in the State.

Commanding Governor Lalong for restoring peace in the State, Nkparu said without peace businesses and industries such as NELMACO will not thrive.








Here him, “before now, business men and industrialists were scared of coming to invest in Plateau, but we thank God for the peace been enjoyed in the state which has made people like us to invest in the State.
















“To me Plateau is home and remains the safest place to stay and do business in the country and I am calling on the state government to continue to provide the enabling environment for companies to thrive in the State.

















“We have also ensure to maintain our Corporate Social Responsibility to our host community without hesitation and as I speak to you we have over 200 indigenous citizens of Plateau working as employees of the company”.


















The MD of NELMACO said the company’s product remain unbeatable compare to the ones produced by their foreign counterparts adding that clients come from as far as Cameroon and other parts of the country to Jos to purchase the company’s pipe.


















“Many people also come from far and near to buy our products, I have people who come all the way from Cameron and other parts of Northern Nigeria to buy our products”.


















Nkparu said what motivated him to go into the business was because he found out after a carful thorough research that Nigeria does not have a single indigenous pipe making company as most are been run and owned by Indians and other foreigners.


















He however lamented that some persons are hell bent on destroying the image of the company, by making wrong insinuations about the company and this has made the company contemplate relocating from Plateau, Nkparu said.









Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment