Share this on WhatsApp

Commissions new MOPOL Squadron Base in Igbogbo-Baiyeku

Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State, on Monday, commissioned a new Police Mobile Force (PMF) Squadron Base 63 in Igbogbo-Baiyeku area of Ikorodu, with a declaration that the criminal elements hitherto hibernating in the axis would no longer have a place to hide.

Speaking at the event which was well-attended by traditional rulers, community chiefs, political and religious leaders as well as top security chiefs, Governor Ambode expressed optimism that the new unit would go a long way in effectively addressing the security challenges experienced in Ikorodu and environs in recent times.

Governor Ambode, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Tunji Bello, said aside the fact that the primary responsibility of government is to ensure the safety and security of its citizenry, the decision to put the new unit in place was in line with the commitment of his administration to transform all parts of the State, as no meaningful development could be achieved in an atmosphere of chaos, fear and uncertainty about safety of lives and property.  

He said: “The security and safety of residents of our dear State cannot and will not be compromised. This is why this administration, in partnership with well-meaning individuals and the Organized Private Sector (OPS) have invested and continue to invest in the provision of equipment and other security infrastructure for efficient and effective operations of security agencies in the State.

“The establishment of this Police Mobile Force 63 Squadron in this location, was initiated by the Lagos State Government to effectively address the security challenges being experienced in the Ikorodu axis of the State.

“With the commissioning of this Squadron, which we have provided with operational vehicles, communication equipment, among others, all criminal elements within Ikorodu and its environs, will have no place to hide.”

The Governor commended the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris for approving the request for the establishment of the unit, saying that the police boss and the officers of the State Police Command deserve to be commended for partnering with the State Government to ensure that criminals do not have safe haven in any part of the State.

He said with the renewed vigour and commitment of police and other security agencies, incidences of violent crime in Ikorodu and other parts of the State would be tackled headlong.

Governor Ambode, who emphasized the importance of community involvement in fighting crime, specifically urged traditional rulers, community leaders and all residents of the axis to support the security personnel that would be deployed to serve at the base, saying the people should not hesitate to pass on useful information that would help in tracking down criminal minded persons.

In his remarks, Idris commended Governor Ambode for the constant and continuous support to the police and other security agencies, saying that the commissioning of the new Police Mobile unit was another manifestation of the Governor’s commitment to security and crime control.  

Idris, who was represented by the Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) in charge of Southwest, Folusho Adebanjo said Ikorodu, being one of the fastest growing suburbs of Lagos State, had developed from a once serene town to a city with thriving commercial and social activities with attendant crime features such as ritual murders, kidnappings, armed robbery, among others.

He said the security challenges in the axis necessitated the need for the establishment of the new unit, assuring that the police would deploy officers of the base to fight crimes associated with the area and enhance law and order.

Also speaking, Adeboruwa of Igbogbo kingdom, Oba Abdulsemiu Kasali lauded the initiative of Governor Ambode to establish the new police unit, saying the development coupled with the ongoing road construction in the area would fast-track transformation of the axis.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment