The breakaway group in the PDP has declared its loyalty to the Uche Secondus-led PDP as the renegade droup cancelled plans to inaugurate its parallel National Working Committee Jan 22.
The Fresh PDP led by Olukayode Akindele made the announcement after a truce reached at the residence of former National Chairman of PDP, Okwesilieze Nwodo, in Abuja.
Akindele said at the end of the closed-door meeting that they were collapsing into the main NWC of the party after receiving words of assurance from PDP leaders.
According to him, they were forced to form Fresh PDP because of impunity in the party.
“While today marks the end of Fresh PDP, it brings a PDP that is caring and wants to address issues that may affect it in the primaries.
“We have been having these meetings for a long time. An executive meeting was held at 5am today (Saturday) in the interest of the nation and the party so that we won’t have a parallel NWC come Monday.
“This group has been cancelled. We have surrendered the list to our leaders here and we want to assure gentlemen of the press that this is the best thing that can happen to PDP.”
Nwodo disclosed that no conditions were given before the dissolution of the Fresh PDP, whom he described as made of enthusiastic youths needed by the party ahead of 2019.
He added that the conciliatory process enjoyed the backing the national leadership of the party as well as that of the Board of Trustee (BoT).
Nwodo described the development as the best gift PDP could give Nigerians.
“A lot of people thought our house was divided and was about to cascade down.
“But we want to assure you that by God’s mercy and internal reconciliation capacity of the PDP, the cracks that you noticed has been completely sealed off.
“Today the fresh PDP has collapsed and all its members have reiterated into the mainstream of the PDP.
“We have a united PDP, poised ready to reclaim power,” he said.
The former national leader added that the defection of PDP members has come to an end as a result of the reconciliation.
The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said what was perceived to be a crisis in the party was over.
“PDP has become one all over again.”
Others PDP leaders present at the meeting were a member of the party’s Board of Trustees (BoT) Sen. Stella Omu.
Other members of Fresh PDP present include Godwin Duru and Franklyne Edede.

			
			Post Views: 
			69