Share this on WhatsApp



As leading international consumer goods fair, Ambiente holds in Germany next month, organisers of the event, Messe Frankfurt has said the upcoming edition of the fair would address challenges in the sector.
Chief Executive Officer, Exhibition and Trade Fair Limited, Omonigho Itoya-Abanokwu, who is Country representative of the company the event, which is expected to hold from 9 – 13 next month, would boost the sector’s contribution to the global economy.
The fair is expected to set the pace for the world of consumer goods and uncover the unique diversity in the Dining, Giving and Living areas as well as offers a comprehensive overview and shows the innovative capacities of the pulsating sector.
It would also offer visitors and exhibitors the unique feature of a digital Business Matchmaking Program in English and German, the organisers said adding that manufacturers and retailers could save specific search parameters to the web portal, whereupon the program brings the relevant parties together.
“Making the right contacts and finding new visitors or exhibitors has become a central issue for anyone coming to the trade fair. We are now a digital step ahead of this trend, offering our exhibitors and visitors an uncommon service – the Business Matchmaking Program – which gives them major added value, even during the run-up to Ambiente,” Divisional Manager for Ambiente, Nicolette Naumann said.
The group added that the consumer goods fair would engender latest ideas and products ranging from global market spectrum to industry trends and future visions.
The organisation said interests in the fair continue to increase as 4,460 companies from 94 nations presented their products at the last edition as well as about 150 thousand trade visitors from 145 countries. 
With a structured offering, the fair is organised into three separate product segments, including dining, giving and living to create a seamless trading platform and distribution channel.
From contract business to sustainable products, the fair is regarded as a major international meeting place for exhibitors and visitors with specialist requirements, offering opportunities to discuss the latest developments with industry professionals.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment