Share this on WhatsApp
Three persons have been confirmed dead, while several others are under watch in Jalingo, Taraba State capital, following the outbreak of Lassa Fever in the state.

World Health Organisation Surveillance Officer Bello Ahmed disclosed this Tuesday at a sensitisation workshop on Lassa Fever organised by the state.

Twelve cases 12 have been reported, three confirmed dead, while three positive cases have been placed under close monitoring.

Bello, who said six local governments—Bali, Ibi, Gassol, Gashaka, Jalingo and Ardo-Kola— in Taraba State have been placed on red alert, explained that two deaths have so far been recorded in Jalingo and one in Ardo-Kola, putting the state at 25 percent infection rate.

The WHO representative further explained that the survey was conducted between January 1 an 28, with 367 contacts identified across the country and urged the public to be mindful of their personal hygiene and safety to mitigate the spread of the disease.

ALSO SEE: Lassa fever hits Owerri

His words: “We are planning collaboration with the Federal Government to develop a test kit for rapid diagnosis to complement the diagnosis centre at Irrua Specialist Hospital.

“We want to call on the Federal Government to consider the establishment of, at least, one diagnostic and treatment centre in each of the zones across the country to effectively tackle the spread of the disease.”

Taraba State Commissioner for Health Innocent Vakkai said the workshop was part of the state government’s efforts at creating awareness to mitigate the spread of the disease.

National Coordinator, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, yesterday, said 21 deaths have been recorded from 77 confirmed cases in the current outbreak of Lassa Fever in the country.

Chikwe Ihekweazu, who disclosed this at the opening ceremony of the National Executive Council meeting of National Association of Resident Doctors, NARD, in Abuja, said of the 77 confirmed cases, 10 affected health workers.

He said two of the health workers affected were reportedly discharged on Monday.

The 2018 episode of the haemorrhagic fever broke out in Ebonyi, and has been spreading across the geopolitical zones.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment