Share this on WhatsApp
Male employees in Access Bank Plc can now go on paternity leave, an incentive the bank approves to demonstrate inclusiveness across the organisation.

“Starting January 2018, male employees of Access Bank can take advantage of an enhanced parental leave policy that extends paid benefits to all mothers and fathers,” the bank said in a statement on Wednesday.

According to the bank, the policy also offers paid leave to all new parents at the bank including mothers and fathers, as well as adoptive and surrogate parents.

The one-week fully paid paternity leave to allow the new father to care for their offspring
and spend some quality time with the new addition to their family.

The adoptive leave with full pay is for three calendar months for female employees of the bank.

“These benefits supplement the 12 weeks of paid leave Access Bank currently provides to birth mothers. The policy also complements the bank’s existing health and flexible workplace benefits, which support work-life balance.”

Head, Group Human Resources Bolaji Agbede said that paid parental leave allowed parents to truly bond with their new child, balance their work schedule and help reduce conflict with parental obligations.

“Studies have shown that fathers who take paternity leave are more likely to take an active role in child care tasks and will continue to play this role long after the period of leave has ended,” Agbede said.

“It is important for the new father to take time off, regardless of family structure. This new policy is an evidence of the bank’s support to employees during this wonderful but challenging time in their lives.”

ALSO SEE: CBN injects fresh $210m as Dollar loses steam

She added that  a pregnant employee who has been in the bank’s employment for 12 consecutive months also has the option of six calendar months maternity leave with two-thirds of full month pay.

“The surrogacy or adoptive leave period is three calendar months with full pay or six calendar months leave with two-thirds of full month pay.”

The bank is breaking a trend in the industry where fresh workers are not expected to get pregnant or married few years following their employment.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment