Share this on WhatsApp



Travails of former Director General of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mournir Gwarzo has taken a new twist as the panel set up by Kemi Adeosun, Minister of Finance, to probe the allegations of corruption leveled against him has recommended his dismissal from public service. 
The panel headed by Mahmoud Isa-Dutse, permanent secretary of the finance ministry, also asked Gwarzo to refund the N104, 851,154 severance packages he approved for himself.
Gwarzo, who has consistently accused Adeosun of removing him because of his insistence on the probe of Oando Plc, was an executive commissioner at SEC when former President Goodluck Jonathan appointed him to lead the commission on May 22, 2015.
On assuming office as DG, he approved the hefty package as entitlement for being an executive commissioner for two and a half years.
Despite the opposition mounted by the acting head of SEC legal department, Frana Chuwuogo, Gwarzo allegedly received over N104 million as benefits of his former position.
Gwarzo’s travails began after a group wrote a petition to the House of Representatives, accusing him of abusing his office.
In the petition, Gwarzo was accused of awarding contracts to his family members and friends, in violation of the rules guiding the commission. It said Gwarzo, his family members and certain directors of the commission were shareholders and directors in companies “used to carry out illegal transactions”.
ALSO SEE: Adeosun framed me up over Oando, says Gwarzo
Details of the “illegality” were stated, with at least four different accounts said to be traced to him.
When Adeosun suspended Gwarzo, he accused her of punishing him because he failed to stop the audit of Oando as requested by the minister.
At the hearing of the legislative panel on Tuesday, Gwarzo insisted that the Oando audit made the minister move against him, an allegation she denied.
Defending his suspension, Adeosun said: “it’s not every time that government officials should be removed from office after they had been arrested”.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment