Antonio Conte says he will be happy whether or not Chelsea sign players in January and believes the club’s transfer policy is “right”.

Chelsea are becoming increasingly frustrated with Conte appearing to criticise their transfer strategy in public, Sky Sports News understands.

Conte admitted after the Carabao Cup defeat to Arsenal on Wednesday that he does not have a “big impact” on Chelsea’s signings but he said on Friday he is content with the current situation.

“It’s right to have this type of situation,” he said ahead of Chelsea’ FA Cup fourth-round tie against Newcastle.

“I’m repeating the same things, I’m the coach, my task is to try to do the best for this club, to improve the players for this club.”

Asked if he is happy at Chelsea, Conte said: “This is something I don’t want to discuss with you. Nothing has changed.

“I am happy to work with my players and for this club.”
￼
Who signs players at Chelsea?

Antonio Conte has often referred to “the club” when asked who signs new players – so how does recruitment work at Chelsea?

Chelsea have been in the hunt for a striker in the January window and Conte confirmed he will be without injured Alvaro Morata for Sunday’s visit of Newcastle.

Thibaut Courtois (ankle) and Willian (hamstring) are also both ruled out, but Conte said only the club will announce any additions to his squad.

ALSO SEE: Top ten worst January window transfers

Antonio Conte says he does not know how long Alvaro Morata will be out injured
“The news about the transfer market, there is the club, the club will inform you if there is news,” said Conte.

“As I said before and I repeat I would be very happy to continue to work with my players, I will be very happy if there are some new players.”

￼Danny Higginbotham examines Chelsea’s search for a target man from a tactical perspective Charly Musonda featured in Chelsea’s 4-0 win over Brighton last weekend, but was not part of the side that faced Arsenal midweek.

But Conte said a decision over whether the player departs on loan is down to Chelsea’s hierarchy.

“To sell, to buy, to go on loan, the club will inform you about these situations,” he said.

			
			Post Views: 
			54