Senate President Bukola Saraki will be back at the Code of Conduct Tribunal for his trial in the False Asset Declaration charges the federal government brought against him—to defend himself on three count charges as ordered by the Court of Appeal Abuja.
The tribunal fixed the February 6 date for the resumption of the trial following an application to that effect by lead counsel to the Federal Government, Mr. Rotimi Jacob SAN.

However, it was gathered that the February 6 date may only be for the mention of the case as the two contending parties, the Senate President and the Federal Government have filed appeal and cross-appeal at the Supreme Court in respect of the decision of the court of appeal.

Although the Administration of Criminal Justice Act 2015 frowns at incessant adjournments of Criminal matters, both Saraki and Federal Government may settle for a stay of the trial, having joined issues with each other at the Apex Court.

The Senate President is praying the Supreme Court to uphold the ruling of the Code of Conduct tribunal which in a no case submission discharged and acquitted him on the ground that the charges against him were predicated on hearsay which has no basis in law.

Saraki in the appeal filed by his lead counsel Mr. Kanu Agabi prayed the Supreme Court to set aside the judgement of the court of Appeal delivered on December 12, 2017 which voided 15 count charges against him and ordered him to defend himself from the remaining three.

ALSO SEE: How fresh plot to unseat Saraki failed

The Federal Government  also filed a cross-appeal in which it prayed the apex court to restore the 18 counts charges as they go back to the tribunal for Saraki to defend himself upon.

The federal government argued  the  court of Appeal erred in law when it held that 15 charges against Saraki were voided because they were based on hearsay.

The CCT under the Chairmanship of Mr. Danladi Yakubu Umar had issued hearing notices to both Saraki and federal government to appear before it on February 6, 2018, to take a common ground.

			
			PV: 
			0