Share this on WhatsApp



Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has been appointed to head a 10-man working committee to address the lingering crisis between herdsmen and farmers in some part of the country.
Addressing State House Correspondents after the National Economic Council meeting headed by the Vice president in Abuja on Thursday, Abdullai Ganduje, governor of Kano State govrnors of Kaduna, Zamfara, Taraba, Benue, Adamawa, Edo, Plateau, Oyo and Ebonyi are members of the committee.
Ganduje said the committee would collaborate with the federal government to address impunity regarding killings and violence. According to him, the committee would work to ensure that all the perpetrators of violence were brought to book.
The council also approved the resolution of the 59th National Council on health that between 1 percent and five percent of the monthly allocation to states be earmarked for financing the implementation of the HIV/AIDS sustainability roadmap.
According to Dave Umahi, Ebonyi state governor, this followed a presentation by Isaac Adewole, Minister of Health.
According to him, they sought council’s interest of public sector funding for HIV/AIDS services in Nigeria in order to achieve the goal of eliminating HIV/AIDS by the year 2030.
According to him, “The increase will reduce depend upon on donor funding for HIV/AIDS services and the attendant development implication.
ALSO SEE: Blogger Olunloyo tottering on the brink after release from detention
“They also called for HIV treatment that will lead to increased life expectancy in the country and the proportion increase in GDP,” he said.
 “They ask council to approve the resolution of the 59th National Council on Health that at least between .5% to 1% of the monthly allocation to states be earmarked for financing the implementation of the HIV/AIDS sustainability roadmap.”
Ganduje said Kemi Adeosun, minister of finance, briefed council that as of January 15, 2018, the excess crude account stood at $2,317 billion, stabilisation account: N9, 730 billion, while natural resources development fund stood at NN115, 108 billion.
The council was also told that so far, budget support loan facility disbursed to 11 states that met the requirements stood at N700 million and that the states that are having outstanding payments were required to meet and complete the necessary obligations before benefiting from the scheme.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment