The Commissioner of Police, Lagos state, Imohimi Egar has ordered an investigation into the death of a 42-year old woman said to have slumped due to a scuffle with operatives of the Federal Special Anti-robbery Squad (FSARS).
The deceased, Asiata Adeyanju, was said to have slumped and died after operatives arrested her son in Ilupeju area of Lagos State.
The son, identified simply as Muiz, 17, was arrested while he was putting off a generator in front of their house. Muiz was reportedly slapped and hurled into the back of a van by the operatives. His parents did not immediately know of his arrest until he was taken away by the operatives.
Consequently, Asiata who is said to be hypertensive slumped after chasing the vehicle. She reportedly died on the way to the hospital.
Muiz was said to have been released after Musendiku, his father, told FSARS operatives that his wife had collapsed.
“I was pulling the generator’s starter when the policemen grabbed my trousers and asked me to enter the bus. Before I knew what was going on, two of the officers started slapping me,” Muiz recounted his ordeal.
ALSO SEE: Famers/herders clash: Gunmen kill 3 in Plateau 
Also speaking, Musendiku said they had barely left the meeting with FSARS operatives when he learnt that his wife had died.
“The boy was arrested by FSARS when he was about to put on the set. I overheard one of my neighbours, Mr. Emmanuel, telling the policemen that the boy lives in the house. I had to break the prayers to attend to the situation. Before I got to the scene, the police van had left the spot. We ran after them but we didn’t see them,” he said.
 “We met the FSARS officers at a junction in Ilupeju and I explained to them my wife had collapsed because of my son’s arrest. That was when they released the boy to us. We had barely left that scene when I got a call that my wife had died.”
Reacting to the matter when contacted, Badmus Dolapo said the Command received the report, and that the Commissioner of Police Lagos state command CP Imohimi Edgar has ordered discreet investigation into the matter.
“If investigation reveals the story to be true, be rest assured any or all officers involved will be dealt with decisively.”