The umbrella socio-cultural body for Fulani herdsmen, Miyetti Allah has endorsed President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar of Bauchi for second term in the 2019 general elections.
Speaking at a meeting of the organization in Bauchi, patron of the Bauchi state chapter of Miyetti Allah, Bappa Aliyu Misau said that they endorsed President Buhari and Governor Abubakar because of their performance in the last two years despite challenges.
“Our association’s endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Mohammed Abubakar based on their good performances in office,” he said.
 He said that President Muhammadu Buhari has done a lot in the area of security which he said many people are trying to reverse the gains made in the area through all means.
ALSO SEE: Fulani herdsmen, not IS behind Benue Killings, says Fani-Kayode
 “The fact that we can now enter our worship places of Mosques and Churches being bodily combed by any security trap is a testimony of security of lives and property which President Buhari assured Nigerians during his electioneering campaigns and an unprecedented achievement ever by any leader”, Aliyu said.
In his reaction, the Bauchi state governor, Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar commended members of the Fulani Socio-cultural organisation for recognising the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari’s achievements as well as that of his administration in the state.
He berated the people formenting trouble and blaming only Fulanis for the current clashes between farmer and herders in various parts of the country.
He informed that a research sponsored by Bauchi state government is ongoing by a Chinese firm on special specie of grass that can grow even in deserts which will be grown so that the Fulani cows can graze.
He further added that the state government will also build earth dams and boreholes for the Fulani cattle breeders to water their cows.
He also dismissed critics of some policies and programmes of the Buhari administration by political detractors describing them as agents of retrogression and destabilisation.

			
			PV: 
			0