Share this on WhatsApp



By SUNDAY ODIBASHI

A former Governor of Katsina State, Alhaji Lawal Kaita, is dead.

Kaita died on Tuesday in Abuja at the age of 85 after a long illness.

The former governor will be buried in Katsina on Wednesday by 2.00p.m. at the Palace of the Emir of Katsina.

Kaita was Governor of Katsina State on the platform of the national Republican Convention (NRC) in 1993 before the transition was truncated by the military regime of late general Sani Abacha after the annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election by general Ibrahim Babangida.  He was vociferous against the agitation for the restoration of the June 12 presidential election won by M.K.O. Abiola. Kaita was a strong voice vehemently opposed to the revisit of the annulment of June 12 election.   

On his death this Tuesday, Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State remarked that Kaita has contributed immensely to the development of contemporary politics in Nigeria.

Masari, in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Media, Alhaji Abdu Labarn, on Tuesday in Katsina, expressed sadness over the death of Lawal Kaita, saying that the deceased was one of the most accommodating, generous and refined politicians the nation has produced.

Masari maintained that, “Politics will never be the same without the jocular banter of the deceased.







ALSO SEE: Why Neymar mocked Philippe Coutinho after Barcelona move

“Katsina State, and indeed the nation at large, will miss the wise counselling of Alhaji Lawal Kaita.

“For Alhaji Lawal Kaita, politics was never a do or die affair, but a vehicle for service to the people.’’

“On behalf of the good people of Katsina state, I condole with the President Muhammadu Buhari, the Emir of Katsina, Alhaji Abdulmumin Kabir Usman, and the immediate family of the deceased.

“May Allah forgive all his shortcomings and grant him eternal rest and give his family the fortitude to bear the loss,’’ the governor declared.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment