The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has frozen bank accounts of companies linked to ex-SGF Babachir Lawal detained early in the week.

The accounts include those of Rholavision Engineering Limited, at Ecobank with number 182001809 which was incorporated by the former SGF in 1990, and his private account at Diamond Bank with number 0003004417.

Lawal allegedly received kickbacks from contractors through the two accounts.

“As part of investigations into the former SGF, we have frozen the accounts of his companies which he allegedly awarded a N223m consultancy contract for the removal of invasive plant species in Komadugu, Yobe Water Channels,” The Punch quoted a detective of the commission as saying.

“We are also tracing several accounts where monies were paid into and will find out their role in the alleged fraud. No stone will be left unturned.

“The SGF is still in our custody but he is giving us full cooperation.”

The source said Lawal’s associates would be invited soon and would have to explain the process that led to the award of a series of contracts he allegedly awarded.

“The Lawal’s firm was established by Lawal in 1990 for the purpose of ICT and not for agro-business. So, his associates will also explain why they got a contract to cut grass. They will also be asked to provide evidence of tax payment and all other necessary documents.

“Lawal claimed he was no longer heading the company when he awarded the contract to Rholavision but the Bank Verification Number of Babachir David Lawal was still the signatory to Rholavision Engineering Limited accounts and 13 other accounts, some with different names were being controlled by the SGF when he awarded the contracts.”

EFCC closed in on Lawal less than 24 hours after former President Olusegun Obasanjo publicly criticised President Muhammadu Buuhari as clannish and guilty of condonation.

Lawal was indicted by a panel headed by Voce President Yemi Osinbajo for contravening the provision of Part 1 of the Fifth Schedule of the 1999 Constitution (as amended); the Public Procurement Act 2007 and breach the Oaths of Office as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation in the Presidential Initiative in the North-East (PINE) headed by Lawal.

The Senate Ad hoc Committee also investigated and recommended the prosecution of all those involved in the contract scam of the initiative.

ALSO SEE: Ex-SGF Lawal caged by EFCC

Lawal had awarded contracts to himself, and also received bribes from PINE contractors, according to a Senate report.

Between March 29, 2016 and April 20, 2016, Josmon Technologies Limited allegedly transferred N317m to Rholavision after receiving two “grass-cutting” contracts worth N530.6m for the removal of invasive plant species in internally displaced people camps in Yobe State, according to the Senate report.

Again on August 8, 2016, JMT Global Technologies Ltd. transferred N30m from its Zenith Bank account 114357188 to Rholavision  shortly after getting eight contracts for rehabilitation and renovation in Adamawa State for the sum of N199.4m.

Also, Barde Brothers Multi-Services Limited awarded seven contracts to renovate classrooms in Adamawa State for N145m allegedly transferred N71m to Lawal’s company account on October 10, 2016, and another N13m between July 7, 2016 and September 9, 2016 to his private account.

The report adds that Messrs Adamawa Boreholes and Drilling Companies Ltd. transferred N18m to the former SGF’s company, after getting a contract worth N54.8m to renovate seven classrooms at Yeskule Girls Secondary School, Michika Adamawa State.

Lawal was dismissed after the Osinbajo-led committee submitted its report. But nothing was done by the EFCC until Wednesdaywhen the commission invited and detained him.



			
			Post Views: 
			95