Pastor Enoch Adeboye has congratulated the national coordinator of the Oodua Peoples Congress, Otunba Gani Adams recently installed as Yoruba’s 15th Aare Ona Kakanfo by the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III.

In a letter dated January 17, 2018 addressed to Adams, the leading Pentecostal pastor and general overseer of the Redeemed Christain Church of God explained he was busy with God’s work during the installation on January 13 at the Durbar Stadium in Oyo town, Oyo .

Adeboye said: “Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father. We greet you in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ of Nazareth. We congratulate you on your installation as the 15th Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yoruba land.

“We regret our inability to attend. Constraints include scheduled annual commitments year in year out at home and abroad. Be assured of our continuous love and prayers.”

Adams’ new traditional title has ancient and idolatrous element that a modern Pentecostal Christian will like to view as diabolical—to be given a wide berth.

Goin round for thanksgiving, the Aare went and worshiped  at the Ijo Orunmila Adulawo in Ebute Meta, Lagos.

ALSO SEE: Gani Adams lauds Ambode’s role in S’West integration

A statement issued by Adams’ Chief of Staff, Segun Akanni, said the visit was part of the activities to praise God for the successful hosting of his installation.

“I’m here today to worship with you and also to identify with you because my position is purely a traditional title. But I have to be liberal with the three prominent religions we practise in the country,” he said, adding, “we shall also visit the Genesis Global Church, Alakuko, Lagos, to observe the thanksgiving service.”

Chief Priest Awodiran Agboola Agboola welcomed Adams and his entourage to Ijo Orunmila Adulawo, describing the OPC national coordinator as a symbol of peace.

“You are a worthy son and blessing to Nigeria and the Yoruba race as a whole.”
 
He urged Adams to continually preach peace and unity in the country.

			
			Post Views: 
			104