Anarchy looms in Kano State over preparations for the 2019 presidential elections as incumbent Governor AbdullahiUmar Ganduje declares confrontational war against his predecessor, Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso.

The incumbent Governor has put his political structures in place to frustrate his erstwhile political ally and mentor of his intention to contest the presidential election against President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019.

Kwankwaso who spent his end of the year holidays in the North east Nigeria holding consultations with stakeholders in the six states of the zone, intends to move his political train to Kano, returning home to liaise with his army of supporters.

The former Governor plans visiting Kano on January 30, 2018 but the incumbent Governor, Ganduje, in an attempt to scuttle the home coming of his predecessor plans to hold political rally same day to confront the Kwankwaso whose legion of followers have been mobilizing to give him heroic welcome.

The plot against Kwankwaso did not stop at that. A former State Chairman of the APC in Kano was gathered to have gone on air on the State Radio that people should stone the former Governor whenever they see him in Kano.  

The political atmosphere in Kano is becoming heated with the plot to return the ADABA, (political thugs) to duty in the build up to 2019. There are indications that recruitment of thugs has been deepened in Kano in preparatory for the 2019 elections in the state. Thus, tension grips stakeholders over the plan to return political thuggery which has caused deaths and monumental destruction of property from political violence in the state.

ALSO SEE: Ganduje battles to grind Kwankwaso in Kano

Before now, Ganduje has ‘plucked out’ all political associates of Kwankwaso from Kano State Government and those in the State Party leadership in his bid to dismantle the former governor’s political structure. The incumbent further manipulate the stakeholders in the state towards destroying the legacy of his predecessor.  

Meanwhile, stakeholders and elder statesmen in Kano have cautioned the incumbent governor and his followers against any act that will cause pandemonium and pogrom in the state. They urged all the state and political actors to limit themselves to persuasive campaigns rather than taking to violence.

Ganduje has been in the vanguard of the Buharists mobilizing for the president’s re-election for second tenure.

However, Kwankwaso has remained that only APC member that has sustained his consultations, negotiations and horse trading for the 2019 presidential election. All other presidential aspirants in APC have given up on the race for President Buhari who is expected to be given automatic ticket of the party.

Apparently, Kwankwaso appears to be a serious threat to the president’s second term ticket of the APC if the party conducts primary election.

However, stakeholders are doing everything possible to get the governor and his men to reasons and forestall outbreak of political violence that could cause breakdown of law and order in the state. 

			
			Post Views: 
			94