The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of  Nigeria  (MACBAN) has said there is no need to set up cattle colonies in the South East geopolitical zone.

The chairman of MACBAN in Anambra said this on Friday at a news conference in Awka.

Sadiq Gidado said that the establishment of cattle colonies in the area is not necessary because of the harmonious relationship already existing between members of the association and the residents.

He only advocated beefing up of the mutual understanding and synergy between MACBAN and the people in the zone.

“Cattle breeding in Anambra is different from what obtains in other states,: he said.

“ Here in Anambra, we are working in synergy with the security operatives, the indigenes and the state government through the Cattle Menace Control Committee.

“To me, anti-open grazing bill, cattle colonies and ranches are just political creations; these concepts are created by politicians to bring disharmony between farmers and herdsmen.

According to him, the proposed cattle colonies cannot work in the southeast.

“You cannot just take somebody’s land and give to another person to conduct his own business; it is not right.”

He pointed out that cattle colonies are already existing in the north.

ALSO SEE: Pregnant women with low carbohydrate diet risk birth defects

Gidado, a member of the Cattle Menace Control Committee, commended the governors of the south-east states for being proactive by setting up the committee which had ensured peace.

Some frictions recorded in the region were caused by migrant cattle breeders who were not members of MACBAN in the zone, he added.

And the association had put in place some measures to forestall future incidents.

“We thank the governors of the South-East states, especially the Anambra and Enugu state governors, who constituted these committees that are coordinating our activities.

There is no anti-grazing law in the region, but the on;y regulation is that you only graze where there are no farms.

“If you destroy farmlands intentionally or unintentionally, you must be punished for what you have done and be made to pay for what you have destroyed.

“And if the people in the communities kill a Fulani man or his cow, you pay damages accordingly,” he said.



			
			Post Views: 
			34