Cancels Jan 30 home visit
Buhari intervenes

By SUNDAY ODIBASHI

The looming anarchy in Kano springing from the power tussle between the former Governor of the state,  Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso, and the incumbent Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has temporary been averted following the cancellation of the scheduled visit of the former Governor to the state.

Kwankwaso, after an interventionist meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja last week, heeded to the plea of the president to cancel the proposed visit to Kano, his home, on January 30, 2018.

Kwankwaso, who is an aspirant for the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been faced with stiff opposition and caustic attack from Governor Ganduje who is an ardent supporter of Buhair’s second term project.

Kwankwaso spent his end of the year holidays in Gombe where he held wide consultations with state and political actors in the North East over his presidential ambition. He returned to Abuja to resume Senate sittings, while he schedule a-return-home visit to Kano on January 30 to continue his consultations with his immediate constituency.

While in Gombe, Kwanwkaso held consultations with stakeholders from Taraba, Bauchi, Adamwa, Yobe, Borno and Gombe states across political parties’ boundaries.

Incumbent Governor Ganduje had planned to hold political rally on January 30 to scuttle the home coming of his predecessor. A former APC State Chairman in Kano was gathered to have gone on air on the State Radio inciting people to stone the former Governor whenever they see him in Kano. 

The political atmosphere in Kano is also being heated with the plot to return the ADABA, (political thugs) to duty in the build up to 2019.





ALSO SEE: Anarchy looms in Kano: Ganduje declares war against Kwankwaso

The configuration of the political tension in Kano indicates that the supporters of incumbent Governor Ganduje would have had violent clash with Kwankwaso’s supporters during the January 30 visit if it had not been cancelled.    

There are indications that recruitment of thugs has been deepened in Kano in preparatory for the 2019 elections in the state. Thus, fear grips stakeholders over the plan to return political thuggery which caused deaths and monumental destruction of property from political violence in the state.

A reliable source revealed that Kwankwaso controls the stronghold of the grassroots population in Kano and has army of loyalists. The former governor, the source said, still has overwhelming influence and has firm control of Kano polity.

Governor Ganduje, a political pupil of Kwankwaso, the source further said, relies on the powers of the state government and support from Abuja in confronting Kwankwaso in Kano State.   

In the grand plot to emasculate Kwankwaso in Kano, Ganduje had ‘sacked all political associates of Kwankwaso from Kano State Government and also removed those in the State APC leadership in order to devastate the former governor’s political dynasty.

Meanwhile, stakeholders and elder statesmen in Kano have cautioned the incumbent governor and his followers against any act that will cause pandemonium and pogrom in the state. They urged all the state and political actors to limit themselves to persuasive campaigns rather than taking to violence.

Ganduje has been in the vanguard of the Buharists mobilizing for the president’s re-election for second tenure.

Kwankwaso has remained that only APC member that has sustained his consultations, negotiations and horse trading for the 2019 presidential election. All other presidential aspirants in APC have given up the race for President Buhari who is expected to be given automatic ticket of the party.

Apparently, Kwankwaso appears to be a serious threat to the president’s second term ticket of the APC if the party conducts primary election.

Kwankwaso’s cancellation of the January 30 visit to Kano has forestall outbreak of political violence that could cause breakdown of law and order in the state.






			
			PV: 
			0