Share this on WhatsApp



Weststar Associates Ltd, main franchise owners of the Mercedes Benz brand in Nigeria has announced the arrival of the first addition to its Mercedes-Benz Vans product portfolio for the Nigerian Market in the year 2018 – The Mercedes-Benz Citan Tourer and Panel Van.
Speaking on the new entrant, the Sales Manager, Mercedes-Benz Commercial vehicles, Weststar Associates, Umoh Ekanem described the Citan as an absolute all-rounder when it comes to day-to-day business.
He said the new Citan is an ideal partner for city logistics and transportation, a corporate shuttle vehicle or simply a vehicle for family leisure activities and is exclusively available for immediate delivery with up-to-the-minute aftersales service through Weststar.
“Our resolve to providing transportation solutions in Nigeria is to ensure we keep our service promise: to deliver only “Vans. Born to run,” Ekanem added.
Handling as expected of the Citan, is safe and smooth as the developers have paid particular attention to ensuring the handling is as expected of the brand, delivering a combination of driving dynamics, agility and ride comfort.
ALSO SEE: Naira remains steady as BDC operators advise CBN on convergence
The Citan focuses on functionality as it is all about meeting the challenges faced in day-to-day operations. Functional features include a large glove compartment, a stowage compartment between the front seats and a useful overhead stowage compartment across the entire width of the windscreen to accommodate all those items that drivers keep on hand on a daily basis.
The practical, standard equipment for the new Citan includes a height-adjustable steering wheel, central locking with remote control and exterior mirrors which can be adjusted from inside. The Citan also sets a good example when it comes to fuel consumption and performance as the engine line-up has the right solution for every requirement profile. It is available only with front-wheel drive, and a high-torque petrol engine as standard for the Nigerian market.
As is the case with every Mercedes-Benz vehicle, safety plays a big role in the new Citan. It comes with the Electronic Stability Program, ADAPTIVE ESP® as standard, which takes the vehicle load into consideration. This innovative dynamic handling control system in the new Citan combines the functions of the anti-locking braking system ABS®, VDC® (Vehicle Dynamic Control) which counters over- and understeer, and TCS® (Traction Control System). It also includes ASR® (acceleration skid control) and drive and braking torque control.
In addition to safety and comfort options, there are also numerous functional extras and accessories to choose from and as an alternative to individual options, Citan buyers have access to various specially created packages.
Set to hit the Nigerian roads of the Citan variants is the Tourer 112; a five-seater crew vehicle with folding rear seat bench and sliding doors on each side, with a long wheelbase. Due to its versatility and adaptability, the Mercedes-Benz Citan fulfils a broad range of commercial applications.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment