Share this on WhatsApp



The Customs Comptroller General, Hameed Ali has been blamed for the recent surge in the attacks and killings of civilians by officers of the Nigeria Customs Service in their fight against smugglers. 
Recall that a bus conductor, identified as Toheeb Olayiwola was killed at Abule-Egba last week and an attack on a pregnant woman, Bukola Olugunna at Iyana Iyesi, in Ado Odo/Ota Local Government Area of Ogun State.
Olayiwola, was reportedly shot dead while three other people were injured by customs men chasing a bus loaded with smuggled bags of rice last week Wednesday.
Barely 24 hours after the bus conductor was killed, officials of the NCS reportedly shot and injured Olugunna, who was eight months pregnant while in pursuit of a smuggled vehicle. She was reportedly hit by stray bullets on her back and left side of her body while on her way to work.
President, National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agent (NCMDLCA), Lucky Amiwero said Customs acted beyond its mandate as it does not have the power to kill innocent citizens.
ALSO SEE: PPMC tackles legislators over fuel subsidy payments
Amiwero who described Customs mode of operation as archaic said there is need for total reform of the Service. “The Comptroller General of Customs is the one instigating that because he is using the military system. If they were not using the military system, we would not be having this number of deaths. Customs can arrest and arraign a suspected smuggler, but there is no law that gave customs power to kill. It is the way they are going about their duty that is why they are killing people.
“The two incidences happened in the town not even in the border. Because you want to check smuggling does not mean you have to kill somebody so there is need for a reform of the Service completely.”
Amiwero said there is need for proper investigation into the matter to ensure arrest and prosecution of customs officers involved in the killing to serve as deterrent to others.
But in defence of the customs action, NCS Public Relations Officers, Joseph Attah said the job of enforcing anti-smuggling operation is not only limited to the approved route but officers are empowered to intercept goods anywhere with the right intelligence at their disposal.
While commiserating with the families of the deceased, Attah call on Nigerians to avoid being used as human shield by smugglers when they are being chased by Customs operatives.
According to him, in such situation the real smuggler escape and runs away with his item while those trying to protect them get wounded.
 “We have discovered that smugglers are adopting a new strategy by rolling into the ground where people are and turning their victims into human shield. Smuggling is a crime and when officers are pursuing smugglers, they run into fellow Nigerians who attack officers while performing their function but support and protect the smugglers. Unfortunately these people happen to be victims of their action,” Attah said.  
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment