Pastor Tunde Bakare, Senior Pastor of the Latter Rain Assembly has described the present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari as a total failure.
Speaking on a TV programme on Sunday, the former running mate to Buhari in the 2011 presidential elections said no matter how you look at it, this is not the government we all hoped for. 
“This is not what we thought this government that promised change in the beginning would perform so woefully. Any right thinking Nigerian would agree with that,” Bakare said.
“You can blame the past administration but you knew what you were going into even if you didn’t know all of it. They could have done better than what they have done. They themselves know that.
However, he praised the president for not denying him access but said some of the things he recommended in the past did not end up being implemented.
ALSO SEE: Linking me to Obasanjo’s third term bid was inconsiderate – Aiteo boss
“But, perhaps at implementation state, I did not know whether to believe the theory of a cabal or the wicked around the throne of the righteous, because he alone cannot deliver all these things. A tree does not make a forest.
The pastor said he might be forced to reason along with those who claim a cabal has hijacked the presidency.
“So many things had happened that I couldn’t even figure out. You must know that I must have been pushed to the wall before I spoke.
Asked if he felt Buhari was nepotic, as claimed by former President Olusegun Obasanjo, Bakare said, “I had no reason at a time with him to believe he was ever nepotic.
 “But when I read what Obasanjo wrote, and I read the list of key appointments made, you begin to think did they just put the thing on his table to sign or this is just what he did deliberately.
“So many things had happened that I couldn’t even figure out. You must know that I must have been pushed to the wall before I spoke.
He said he hope he is not forced to do a follow-up video of a side of President Muhammadu Buhari that “he does not know”. 
In the build-up to the 2015 election, Bakare, who was Buhari’s running mate in 2011, did a video, ‘The Buhari I know’. He had described the president as “a great personality, unique and quintessential”.

			
			PV: 
			0