Share this on WhatsApp



Leaders of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the south-east have endorsed President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term.
Speaking with state house correspondents on Monday, Ogbonnaya Onu, minister of science and technology, who led a delegation to Buhari, said the president has done enough to merit a second time.
The delegation comprised Rochas Okorocha, governor of Imo state who was represented by Eze Madumere, his deputy, serving members of the national assembly, former governors, all the ministers from the south-east, members of the national working committee and national executive committee of the APC.
“The APC leadership in the south-east met on December 31 last year and endorsed the president for a second term,” he said.
“We have come today to reaffirm that and to assure Mr. President that the party is working very hard to win future elections.”
The minister said Buhari was very happy with the calibre of people that were in the delegation.
“He was very happy because you can see the caliber of people in this delegation, a very high-powered delegation,” he said.
ALSO SEE: Africa’s universities are not future ready!
“The president was very happy that such a delegation thought it fit to visit him.”
Asked if the meeting which was less than 10 minutes was all about politics and nothing on what is bothering the south east, Onu said, “Oh yes. We first commended the president on the efforts he is making to make sure that there is development in the south-east.
“For example, the major roads that run through the five states, if you take the Enugu-Port Harcourt Road, Enugu-Onitsha-Owerri road, this administration has worked very hard.
“I travelled by road to Port Harcourt on the 12th of this month and I can tell you that very significant improvements have taken place. In the past, it used to be promises, but now it’s action.
“The second Niger Bridge in the past was a promise but now there is action on that very important bridge which is not just for the south-east but for the whole country as a matter of fact.
“We also thanked him because the people of the south-east are very enterprising people, so when you are building a railway network, it is important that all major commercial towns are linked up by rail and also gas distribution. And the president gave direct instructions that this should be done and we are very happy. Is not just good for the south-east is good for the nation.”
The delegation also asked Buhari to name an asset after former Vice-President Alex Ekwueme who died in London last year.
“We also thanked the president for the role the federal government is playing under his leadership on the burial of one of our very great sons, former vice-president of this great nation, Dr. Alex Ekwueme,” he said.
“And we told him that the people of the south-east will be happy if a national asset is named after him as a way to show that the nation is also appreciative of his important contributions to nation-building.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment