Share this on WhatsApp
The Lagos State House of Assembly has passed into law two crucial bills on land use charge and embedded power supply, that may likely aid the performance of yet to be passed Y2018 budget.

On electricity, the bill is entitled; “A law to improve electricity supply, power generation, distribution and evacuation through an embedded power scheme in Lagos State and the enforcement of consumer rights and obligation and for connected purposes would lead to constant supply of power.

It would be observed that Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has been emphasising the need to have regular power supply across the state.

The new law, which has 78 sections, would provide for the development and management of sustainable power supply in the state.

It would also facilitate the development and management of electricity infrastructure and facilities within the state.

It would also promote and support the provision of an efficient and effective power generation and evacuation infrastructure in the state.

The Bill, which the House has since directed  should be sent to the Governor for his ascent, will ensure the availability of a cost effective electric supply.

“Ensure collaboration with the Federal and state energy and electric power related agencies to promote and support investment in electric power projects within the state.

“Ensure that the state has constant electric power generation and distribution.

“Develop and facilitate an enabling environment for embedded power sector investment in the state,” the bill read.

It also provides support in the collection of tariffs and revenue from embedded power end users and ensures the protection of electric power generation, evacuation infrastructure and prescribe appropriate sanctions.

The bill on land use charge is entitled “A Bill for a law to provide for the consolidation of property and land based charges and make provisions for the levying and collection of land use charge in Lagos State and for connected purposes.”

The law provides that each local government area in the state shall be the collecting authority and is shall be the only body empowered to levy and collect tenement rates for its area of jurisdiction.

Land Use Charge, the law states, shall be payable in respect of property that is not exempted under Section 12 of the law.

Some of the properties exempted from the law include property owned and occupied by a religious body and used exclusively as a place of worship or religious education.

Also exempted are public cemeteries and burial grounds as well as property used as a registered educational institution certified by the Commissioner to be nonprofit making.

In addition, the law exempts any property specifically exempted by the Executive Governor by notice published in the State Official Gazette and all palaces of recognized Obas and Chiefs in the state.

However, the law made it clear that an exempted property shall become liable for Land Use Charge if the use of such property changes to one that does not qualify for exemption.

According to the law, the Commissioner shall cause to be issued in each financial year a Land Use Charge Demand Notice with respect to every chargeable property that has been assessed in accordance with the provisions of the law.

“The Land Use Charge Demand Notice may be delivered to the Owner or Occupier and can also be requested for by either the Owner, Occupied or authorized agent of the Property at any of the Land Use Charge offices or via electronic platform,” the law read.

The law emphasised that the amount of the Land Use Charge payable on any Property shall be arrived at, by multiplying the Market Value of the Property by the applicable Relief Rate and Annual Charge Rate using the prescribed formulae.

Meanwhile, the House has urged Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to immortalise its late Special Adviser on Commerce, Industry and Ci-Operative.

The Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa has raised the issue and stated that it was painful that the late SA died, while playing football, which he has passion for.

“We heard the news of the death of Mr. Deji Tinubu. It was a tragic one and a sad news. We could not revive him or bring him back to life. But we surrendered to the will of God. He died, while doing what he knows how to do best. We will write a condolence letter to the family,” the Speaker said.

This was corroborated by Hon. Tunde Buraimoh, Hon. SOB Agunbiade and Hon. Oladele Adekanye.

It will be recalled that the late Mr. Deji Tinubu died last week Thursday in Epe, while playing football with his colleagues during a retreat organised for the state executive members and senior government officials.


Meanwhile, the Members of the Lagos State House of Assembly confirmed
the nominees of the Lagos State Governor for the Lagos State Sports
Trust Fund with Mr. Femi Pedro as the Chairman while Mr. Olaposi
Agunbiade will serve as the Executive Secretary confirm also were
nominees for Lagos State Sports Commission.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment