Following the killing of a Tiv woman in Orin Ekiti by people suspected to be Fulani herdsmen, Gov. Ayodele Fayose has threatened to hold the state’s Serikin Fulani Muhammed Abashe responsible for further violence.

The governor said Abashe could not provide effective leadership by his inability to rein his kinsmen from destroying farms and attacking residents.

“If you (herdsmen) still want to stay among us, you must accept the responsibility to ensure that none of our people’s farms is destroyed by herdsmen any longer. None of our people must be killed by your men,” the governor said during peace parley with Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, farmers, local hunters, security agencies and representatives of the Tiv community in Ado Ekiti.

“If any killing or destruction of farms of our people occurs again in that area, I will ensure that I use the law to fight you their leaders. This is the last warning.”

According to him, the activities of the Fulani herders had constituted an embarrassment to President Muhammadu Buhari and other notable Fulani leaders in the country.

“This killing is giving Fulani people a bad name. If there are no good people among them, how would General Buhari rise to be president?

ALSO SEE: Benue: DSS report indicts govt-sponsored militias, ISIS

“Even though President Buhari does not send people to kill, it is spoiling his name. We are to make sure the killing stops.”

The governor said he would not compromise in his efforts to shield the state from the menace of the herders, promised to enter into partnership to increase surveillance in the state.

“The moment you are caught, you will face the law. The killing by fulani is worse than Boko Haram. We want one Nigeria because we have gone far. Anyone harbouring criminals will not know peace. Enough is enough. Life is sacred and must be treated as such.”

He then advised the federal government to get firmer in dealing with the menace.

“It is because they are taking it like a family affair; this is not in the interest of Nigeria. Ordinary Nigerians can’t carry AK47 or pump action.”

			
			PV: 
			0