Share this on WhatsApp



One of the top 10 international airlines, Virgin Atlantic Airways is currently working out modalities to sweep market share for several international route especially Lagos-London.
Whereas the company has thanked Nigerians flyers for their steady patronage in the last 16 years, the group said it is deepening service delivery as 2018 business activities kick off.
According to the Head of Virgin Atlantic in Nigeria, Samuel Lindfield, the airline was about to embark on a further significant programme of investment to the fleet, with the introduction of the
“This aircraft will offer a superlative level of customer experience, a 25 per cent reduction in fuel consumption versus equivalent aircraft, and ambient mood lighting to reduce the effects of jetlag. When combined with the brand new 789-9s and modern A330s, Virgin Atlantic will boast one of the youngest and most fuel efficient fleets in the sky.”
Already, the company has introduced a number of customer-focused initiatives, which help it better give back to the communities it serve in Nigeria.
ALSO SEE: Weirdest thing Gov Ajimobi did to get rich
“These include inflight Wi-Fi connectivity between Lagos and London, a revamped Upper Class food and beverage menu, free chilled bottles of water on arrival and free luggage trolleys for all passengers arriving on Virgin Atlantic in Lagos.
“These initiatives all form part of the focus on offering bespoke service to our Nigerian passengers, on one of our flagship routes.”
“On its Corporate Social Responsibility (CRS) in Nigeria, year 2017 saw Virgin Atlantic collaborated with British Council ‘Enterprise Challenge’ winners, Nasir Yammama and Sophia Uno. The two English outfits had launched the Enterprise Challenge in 2014 to help budding Nigerian entrepreneurs reach for the skies.
“The competition provides a platform in Nigeria for young, brilliant entrepreneurial minds to develop their commercial skills and businesses. Nasir and Sophia were the faces of the entrepreneur advertising campaign recently run in Nigeria.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment