Share this on WhatsApp
Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom state has stated that the collaborative efforts between the state command of the Nigerian Police and other security agencies have accounted for the peace currently enjoyed in the state.
Governor Emmanuel who opined that all the projects being executed in the state would have been put on hold if the state was not safe for investors and contractors also lauded the harmonious relationship between the various sections of the police in the state command.
Mr. Emmanuel while speaking at the annual end-of-year get together ceremony of officers of the state command of the Nigeria Police in Uyo, said with their number, they set the pace in internal security operations.
The governor commended the Police for their role in maintaining security in the state, adding that without the police, internal security cannot be realised.
Describing the police as strategic partners, Governor Emmanuel wondered how contractors and investors would have executed all the laudable projects recorded, if the state was under threats of insecurity.
He said with over 8000 policemen in Akwa Ibom, they have spread their tentacles spread into the remotest villages in the state. “If you do think the police is not your friend, let them be off duty for two hours and let me see whether you will be able to go to the farm or the market.”
ALSO SEE: LG elections dry in Osun
He said that despite the prayers usually offered in the state for peace, God still passes through people like policemen to answer the prayers and ensure peace in the state.
The Governor recounted how he had visited the police to re-iterate the importance of security of voters during the election, and expressed satisfaction with the efforts of the police that led to the success of the exercise held last December.
“I want to thank you for helping us conduct a peaceful election. It is the most difficult election where a lot of people usually lose their lives, but we finished and no life was lost.”
He promised to maintain the cordial relationship with the police force, adding that his position as a governor will end someday, but the relationship with members of the service will never end.
Commissioner for Police in the state, Mr. Adeyemi Ogunjemilusi thanked the Governor for his support to the state Command, but sought for more interventions through the provision of more operational vehicles, improved communication, funding and construction and equipping of more police stations.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment