Share this on WhatsApp



The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Wednesday in Abuja presented certificates of registration to the 21 newly registered political parties.
The new political parties whose registration were approved by INEC on Dec 14, 2017 brings the total number of registered parties in Nigeria to 68
The political parties are All Blending Party (ABP), All Grassroots Alliance (AGA), Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN), Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP), Coalition for Change (C4C) and Freedom and Justice Party (FJP).
Also registered are Grassroots Development Party of Nigeria (GDPN), Justice Must Prevail Party (JMPP), Legacy Party of Nigeria (LPN), Mass Action Joint Alliance (MAJA), Modern Democratic Party (MDP), National Interest Party (NIP), National Rescue Mission (NRM) and New Progressive Mission (NPM).
New Progressive Movement (NPM), Nigeria Democratic Congress Party (NDCP), People’s Alliance for National Development and Liberty (PANDEL), People’s Trust (PT) and Providence People’s Congress (PPC) were also registered.
ALSO SEE: INEC releases schedules for 2019 general elections
Also on the list are Re-Build Nigeria Party (RBNP), Restoration Party of Nigeria (RP) and Sustainable National Party (SNP).
The INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said at the certificates presentation ceremony new parties said that compliance with the judgment of the Federal High Court, the Commission had also registered the Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN).
 “The number of new political parties has risen to 22 in addition to the 46 parties already in existence. This means that the total number of political parties in Nigeria today stands at 68,’’ he said.
Yakubu advised the new parties to operate within the law at all times, as well add value to our democracy by adhering to the tenets of democratic norms anchored on the rule of law.
Yakubu disclosed that since the registration of the 21 new political parties, the commission had received more 90 applications from associations seeking registration as political parties.
He said that out of the 90 applications, 61 associations had failed the initial assessment of their proposed names, logos or acronyms and had been notified.
He assured all associations that the commission would continue to treat each application fairly and on its merit consistent with the provisions of the law.
Yakubu also assured Nigerians that INEC was capable of managing the increased numbers of registered political parties in the country.
He appealed to political parties to adhere strictly to the 2019 election timelines warning that INEC would not hesitate to reject the submission by any party that violates the timelines.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment