Delta State Governor, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa on Wednesday extolled the visionary leadership of his Sokoto State counterpart, Rt. Hon. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal (CFR) as he turns 52 years today, 10th January, 2018.
In a goodwill message by his Chief Press Secretary, Charles Aniagwu, Governor Okowa said the former Speaker of the House of Representatives had every cause to celebrate and thank God Almighty for His benevolence on the joyful occasion of his 52nd birthday anniversary.
“I am reminded of your glittering years in the House of Representatives, where against all odds, you were elected Speaker in the 7th Assembly. Your approach to leadership which is defined by the vision to build people and enduring structures that can stand the test of time is highly commendable. 
ALSO SEE: Delay in approving 2017 budget, shrunk Customs record revenue for 2017
“Your services to our country and contributions to our democracy are innumerable. You have combined the ingenuity of a legislator per excellence with humility and genuine feelings and thoughts for the less privileged. Those of us who know you will always attest to your sincerity of purpose.
“In a life that has seen you become Speaker of the House of Representatives amidst your achievements as a fantastic lawmaker and now Governor of Sokoto State, there is great cause for you, members of your family, your many associates, protégés and well-wishers to thank Almighty God for His benevolence upon you.
“I can testify to your devotion to excellence, commitment, simplicity and integrity. These qualities will continue to be a source of inspiration to all those whose lives you have touched in various important ways.
Gov. Okowa lauded the Sokoto State Governor for his achievements in education and agriculture especially the flagged off program to enroll 1.4 million new kids into schools in 12 months.
Aniagwu quoted the Governor as saying: “It is with profound joy that I write on behalf of my family, the government and people of Delta State, to express very warm felicitations to you on the occasion of your 52nd birthday anniversary.
“I join your family, friends, well-wishers, the good people of Sokoto State and indeed the entire people of Nigeria in celebrating a life that vividly epitomizes generosity, care and affection while also symbolizing the assured reward for single-minded commitment to the ideals of diligence, humility, perseverance, focus, dedicated service, forthrightness and outstanding patriotism with which God has blessed you in the past 52 years.” Gov. Okowa added.

			
			PV: 
			0