The hype that greeted the newly launched satellite Television, TSTV seem to have died down as many Nigerian still remain in oblivion as to the status or fate of the provider.
Many Nigerians who hailed the launch of a new satellite television, and mocked DSTV as well as other cable service providers are now waving signs of disappointment.
The failure of TSTV to begins sales immediately coupled with an allegation that it was illegally claiming to have license to air some content belonging to bEIN seemed to have dampened the zeal of some Nigerians.
TSTV which seems to have everything going for it from that start, now appears like a flash in the pan.
Recalled, that, TStv Africa, was granted three-year tax relief by the federal government.
The newly inaugurated television was also granted tax free dividends to all investors in the company.
Alhaji Lai Mohammed, minister of Information and Culture, announced the incentives at a dinner to mark the official unveiling of the new company.
Mohammed said the tax reliefs were in line with the Pioneer Status recently granted to the Creative Industry by the Government.
ALSO SEE: Military uniforms, weapons laden container disappears
Dr. Bright Echefu, chief executive officer (CEO), TSTV, claimed that TStv for a start has 70 premium channels model with the cheapest pay-TV in Africa with maximum subscription fee of N3000.
He said as a fully Nigerian brand with consideration for the masses, TStv is not classified and it has a model that accommodate subscription as low as N200 as N500 for a period of time.
The CEO said TStv came with PVR (Personal Video Recorder) Decoder which allowed viewers greater control over their viewing experience with functions like pause, rewind, forward, save and record of programmes of interest.
Echefu said that once you subscribe to TStv, you will also get complimentary internet service, enabled Wi-Fi, as well as video calls and video conferencing services.
“It has an array of amazing TV channels with premium entertainment, educative programs that cut across all genres.

			
			Post Views: 
			217