Share this on WhatsApp
Authorised General Distributor of Mercedes-Benz in Nigeria – Weststar Associates Limited has confirmed the arrival of the much anticipated S-class facelift in Nigeria. 
Speaking about the latest arrival, MD/CEO of Weststar Associates, Mirko Plath said the top-of-the-range Mercedes-Benz sedan takes another big step towards the future of autonomous driving and elevates Intelligent Drive to the next level as the advanced design of the S-Class conveys even more status and highest technological competence.
According to him, the two new engines available for the Nigerian Market are petrol (S 450) variants of six-cylinder in-line engines and a new V8 biturbo petrol engine (S 560). 
Since inventing the world’s very first car over 130 years ago, Mercedes-Benz has consistently been redefining what a car can be and the new S-Class is no exception. The enhanced design of the S-Class conveys an even greater sense of status and the highest level of technological expertise. 
The facelift is making a technological leap with its state-of-the-art drive generation as the completely newly developed in-line 6-cylinder gasoline engine in the S 450 electrified with an integrated starter generator for the customer. 
It features a touch-sensitive control in the steering wheel. They respond to swiping motions like the screen of a smartphone and enable the driver to control the entire infotainment system without having to take their hands off the steering wheel. The operation of DISTRONIC and cruise control with control elements directly on the steering wheel is another new feature.
ALSO SEE: Is virtual reality a bonus to education?
Also, there is an optional energizing comfort control which links various on-board comfort systems together, e.g. climate control, ambience lighting, massage and fragrance functions, and allows customers to configure a specific wellness set-up to suit their mood or need. 
This enhances physical comfort and performance on the road also inside the S-Class is the touch-sensitive Touch Control buttons in the steering wheel. They respond to swiping motions like the screen of a smartphone. They enable the driver to control the entire infotainment system without having to take their hands off the steering wheel.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment