Share this on WhatsApp
The African Action Congress (AAC) and the TakeItBack Movement has expressed its disappointment with Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo over a statement credited to him during a visit to the Palace of the Alaafin of Oyo on Saturday.
Osinbajo was reported to have said that the Yorubas should work towards a 2023 Yoruba presidency by voting Muhammadu Buhari in 2019.
In a statement by the Director of Media Communications for Sowore 2019 Campaign/ African Action Congress Party, Rachel Onamusi-Kpiasi on Sunday, it said with over 20 million Nigerians jobless and companies folding up, it is utterly disgraceful that instead of addressing these issues, Prof. Osinbajo has resorted to playing ethnic card out of political desperation.
“It is no exaggeration that Nigerians have never, in recent times, been this divided. What Nigerians have experienced in the last three years of the Buhari/Osinbajo administration is the height of ethnic and religious divisions laced with diatribes capable of splitting a nation.”
The party said instead of proffering solutions to Nigeria’s economic woes, the APC has resorted to creating more confusion by postulating, even within the same party, a 2023 Yoruba Presidency and a 2023 Igbo Presidency respectively. This is what Nigerians get when a ruling party is confused in all aspects.
According to the party, it is ignominious to say the least that this act of division is being spearheaded by a professor of PUBLIC Law and a pastor who, in saner climes, should be a bridge-builder, uniting people for a common goal of developing the country.
“The Buhari administration has succeeded in establishing several ‘sects’ in the society. Politically, it has created ‘Hailers’- those who praise the administration regardless of all its failings and ‘Wailers’ – those who call out the obvious failings of the administration.
“We call on all Nigerians to come to the understanding that the looters of our commonwealth and their cronies are not divided by language. They understand one language which is – ‘to loot’. The masses therefore should unite with one language – ‘to fight for the soul of Nigeria.’
Reiterating the AAC commitment towards engaging Nigerians irrespective of class, creed, religious affiliations and political affiliations with practical solutions to save the country, it warns politicians like Osinbajo against using divisive methods to gain votes.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment