Share this on WhatsApp
Paris Saint-Germain is delighted to announce that Alphonse Areola has signed a four-year contract extension. A World Cup winner in July 2018 with France, the international goalkeeper’s deal will keep him at the club until 30 June 2023.
Arriving at the club’s academy in 2006, the Paris-born shot-stopper rose through the ranks of the Paris Saint-Germain youth system, signing his first professional contract on 3 July 2009 at the age of 16.
Now at 25, Alphonse Areola has played 85 matches in all competitions with his hometown club, winning 8 trophies: two Ligue 1 titles (2013, 2018), two Coupes de France (2017, 2018), two Coupes de la Ligue (2017, 2018) and two Trophées des champions (2016, 2017)
On 6 September 2018, Alphonse became the 12th player from the PSG youth academy to make his debut for the France senior team, starting between the posts for the UEFA Nations League match in Germany (0-0). He was capped a second time by Les Bleus against Holland (2-1) three days later in the same competition.
With this contract extension, which follows Presnel Kimpembe’s renewal in August 2018, Alphonse Areola has committed his future to Paris Saint-Germain for many years to come.
“It was very important for me to continue my career and my progress here at Paris Saint-Germain,” said Alphonse Areola after signing his new contract. “This club is not just where I’ve trained, it is also in my heart. I grew up here and have now managed to make the first team squad. The club has given me this chance to pursue high ambitions alongside exceptional teammates. With the continued strong support of our fans, we still have wonderful pages of history to write together. I believe in this club and in the chance to make unforgettable memories here.”
“We are very happy to extend Alphonse Areola’s contract today,” said Nasser Al-Khelaïfi, President of Paris Saint-Germain. “Alphonse exemplifies the excellence of our youth academy. And we and our supporters appreciate the loyalty shown to the club by signing up for the long-term. Ever since his very first days here, Alphonse has shown his fantastic desire to improve by working with the most experienced coaches and teammates. His extension is a very strong signal of the confidence that we place and will continue to place in the players that we develop here.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment