Share this on WhatsApp



Gospel music minister and business expert Anietie Udoh recently  unveil her 3rd album with a touch of elegance the event, held at the prestigious Oriental Hotel ballroom, as she host the event with  Yamaha Ambassador, the multiple award winning producer and Jazz artiste Wole Oni. It will also feature Award winning singer Tosin Martins and WOMP Records signee, the female saxophonist in a class of her own, SaxGold.Udoh told Esther Egbe National Daily how music started for her and more.
Can we meet you Madam ?
I am Anietie Udoh, born into the family of Chief & Mrs Lawrence Udoh of Ekpuk in Mkpat Enin Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, Nigeria.
What’s your educational background?
I hold a B.Sc. in Banking & Finance (University of Uyo); MBA in Marketing (University of Calabar); and a Chattered Insurer.
Outside music what else do you do ?
I am  a Top Executive (General Manager, Business Development) at Standard Alliance Insurance PLC.
How do you relax?
I am a golfer who has accomplished the “Hole-in-one” feat with over twenty six (26) trophies to my name. I  have played both internationally and locally. Am also a member of Ikoyi Club (1938); Ibom Golf Club and Port Harcourt Club (1928).
How did your love for music started ?
My love for music was kick-started when i was about ten years old as her mum encouraged her to function in her church choir then.Subsequently, every phase of my life till date founded  further into different expressions of professional singing. Ranging from being in choirs – Assemblies of God, R.C.C.G. Daystar – to leading worship, releasing albums, ministering on air et al.
In the quest to actualize purpose and passion, and to be a source of hope and encouragement to many, i decided to put sound to the thoughts that God has been pouring into my heart. This birthed the decision to return to the studio and do what is expedient.Now,i have picked up the mantle of blessing many with songs directly downloaded from God’s mouth into heart, there is no stopping me.
When and how many album have you released so far?
My first album – ‘God is Able’ was released in 1999; and in 2008 she released her second album – ‘You Can Make It’.The first single off her album ‘God of Miracle’ was released in May 2018.
What is the challenge in music industry ?
I think the challenge is funding because if you want to do something that is standard, it will cost you a lot of money. Music is very expensive. I’m sure if you look around you will know that we have invested a lot to have come up with this event as it came out to be successful. If there was support for the talented upcoming artistes, they would perform well.
Why Gospel music ?
We all know that gospel is about good news.Good news motivates, it makes you happy. Everything is there. If you want to worship God, the ‘Lamb of God’ is there. If you are in a situation where you don’t know what to do, ‘I Trust in You’ is there.
If you want to praise God, ‘Praise’ is there. So, it’s a total package .From the reaction of the audience, I’m glad that they enjoyed what they heard tonight.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment