Share this on WhatsApp
The skipper of the Black Stars, Asamoah Gyan has shocked the Accra Family Court hearing the case of marriage annulment between him and Gifty Gyan that he is walking around a “broke man” and has not been paid for some months now.

The court had ordered Asamoah Gyan to ensure he paid for the air ticket of his wife and all their three children traveling from the UK to Ghana for a DNA test to be conducted.

The court demanded that the children must be protected from the stigma of the ongoing court process for which reason it was suggested Asamoah Gyan booked a business or 1st class ticket for them and their mother as well as prepare an accommodation for them in Accra.

Asamoah Gyan, however, told the court he is broke and cannot afford a business or 1st class ticket because he has not been paid for some months.

This is after he told the court in August that he can only afford Ghc3000 a month for the upkeep of the 3 children and the wife who are based in the UK.

A source close to the wife has said Mrs Gyan doesn’t need her husband’s money and has since refused to go for it since August when he began paying in court.

On Asamoah’s claim to be broke to the extent that he cannot afford to pay the business class ticket for the children as it will include their mother, the court warned against delay tactics, refusing to agree with him.

The court therefore ordered him to file his full bank account details with the court in two weeks.

The Black Stars captain Asamoah Gyan had earlier in 2016 accused one Sarah Kwablah with whom he had sex of trying to extort money from him.

Speaking about his sexual encounter with the girl, Gyan said he went to Sarah Kwabla’s house at Weija near the West Hills Mall in “his dirty training kits” and had sex, but because the family believes he is well to do, they want to make money out of him.

He said Sarah had joined him at the training grounds at SCC and after training, he introduced her to his colleagues as a friend.

Since Sarah’s house, located behind the West Hills Mall at Weija was not far away from the training grounds, Gyan said they went to her house in his car, whilst he was still wearing his dirty training kits.

They both enjoyed the lovemaking, he recounted but Sarah twisted the story and later accused him of rape. “We had a good time,” Gyan said.

He said Sarah and her family wanted to extort money from him and that was why they accused him of rape.

He said, if he had raped her, she wouldn’t have had the strength to walk him out and open her house gate for him to drive his car out.

Recounting how they met, Gyan said they met through social media and so they exchanged many text messages and spoke on phone a number of times

Asamoah Gyan is regarded as one of the highest paid footballers in Ghana. Shanghai SIPG of the Chinese Super league thrust Asamoah Gyan into the list of the highest paid players on the globe. He turned out to be the highest paid players in Ghana making a whopping £ 22700 a week. Currently, he emerges top on the list of the richest footballers in Ghana.

Asamoah Gyan net worth is estimated at $23 Million by Yen Ghana. Most of this net worth is from his involvement in businesses outside the pitch. He owns McCarthy Hill House, a mansion worth $3 Million and drives among many others, Phantom car which is manufactured by Roll Royce valued at £400,000. Asamoah Gyan owned a fleet of cars among them Mercedes Benz and Bugatti.

His transfer to Sunderland saw him bag a deal worth $ 13 Million. In his current club in Turkey, the salary of the Ghana captain is unknown but is believed to take home about £ 89,000 a week.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment