Share this on WhatsApp





The police have confirmed that they were currently in the residence of Senator Dino Melaye to effect his arrest for alleged attempted culpable homicide.

A police officer, Sgt Danjuma Saliu, was alleged to have been shot while on duty by the senator and his armed thugs on July 19 in Kogi state.

A statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, Mr Jimoh Moshood, said that Melaye was being arrested to answer to the case of attempted culpable homicide.

“The Police operatives currently in the residence of Senator Dino Melaye are to effect his arrest to answer to the case of attempted culpable homicide on the shooting of a Police Officer, Sgt Danjuma Saliu, attached to 37 Police Mobile Force (PMF) while on duty at a stop and search point along Aiyetoro Gbede, Mopa Road in Kogi State,” the statement read.


The police officer, Moshood said, was on duty at a stop and search point along Aiyetoro Gbede, Mopa Road in Kogi State.


He said the police have written the clerk of the national assembly for Melaye to report at Kogi state police command for him to answer to the “offences” but he has “bluntly refused to report himself to the Police.”

“The Police investigators have written the Clerk of the National Assembly for Senator Dino Melaye to report at Kogi State Police Command, CIID, Lokoja for him to answer to these offences against him under investigation in Kogi State Police Command but he has bluntly refused to report himself to the Police.

“The Police operatives will continue to be in wait at the residence of Senator Dino Melaye until he surrenders himself for arrest.

“The offence for which Senator Dino Melaye is being investigated is capital in nature and not compoundable.

“The Force will not tolerate attack on his personnel by any individual no matter how highly placed. The law must take its course.

“The Police operatives will continue to be in wait at the residence of Senator Dino Melaye until he surrenders himself for arrest,” he said, adding: “The offence for which Senator Dino Melaye is being investigated is capital in nature and not compoundable.”

Melaye recently accused Ibrahim Idris, inspector-general of police, of plotting to kill him.

He had been arraigned in court on several occasions over allegations of alleged gun running and attempted suicide.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment