Share this on WhatsApp



Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp described the way he celebrated Divock Origi’s dramatic winner as “not cool” following the 1-0 Merseyside derby victory over Everton at Anfield.
Klopp ran onto the pitch to celebrate with Reds goalkeeper Alisson Becker when substitute Origi punished a mistake by Jordan Pickford by heading home in stoppage time.
The German said he had subsequently apologized to his Everton counterpart Marco Silva – something Silva claimed had not been the case.
Klopp said: “Immediately after the game I apologized to Marco Silva when we spoke. I told him how much I respect his work, because it’s incredible what he has done with that team. They are just an outstanding side.
“Derbies are always difficult but this was a completely different difficult to the last few years.
“What can I say? I didn’t want to run. It was not my plan. I didn’t want to run – I couldn’t stop. Not cool, but it happened.
“The more important things happened during the 95 minutes. Again, all my respect for Everton, really good. Both teams delivered a proper fight, a proper derby from the first second.”
Silva said: “He didn’t apologize to me. All of your colleagues have asked me about the situation but I didn’t see it. I don’t know what he did and the way he did it.
“It was a lucky day for him but that is football. I cannot say it was disrespectful because I didn’t see it, maybe when I see that moment I can speak more.”
The goal came when Pickford attempted to tip a sliced effort from Virgil van Dijk over, only to send the ball bouncing against the bar and towards Origi.
Silva said when asked about the England goalkeeper, who had done well to deny Xherdan Shaqiri in the first half: “What I told him will stay between us.
“What I can tell you, like we started the match all together, like we have been working since the first day all together, we finished the match all together.
“He did really well until that moment and it is something no one expected. It is easy to understand how the stadium celebrated the goal in the last minute.”
He added: “I know the main thing is always the result but I am proud of our players. We didn’t deserve it and it was a lucky, lucky day for Liverpool.”
Klopp, who admitted the goal was “a bit lucky”, expressed his delight for Origi.
The forward sustained a nasty ankle injury in a Merseyside derby in April 2016 via a tackle from Ramiro Funes Mori.
Klopp said of the Belgian, who was making only his second Liverpool appearance since being on loan at Wolfsburg last season: “I said it to him when I sent him on. I’ve never forgotten it.
“Fouls and harsh tackles happen, but in his case it was a break in his development.
“At that time he was outstanding. After that, it took a long time before he felt absolutely nothing.
“It all changed a little bit (for him), you lose confidence. So it was always in my mind. Now he can finish that book and from now on everything will be fine.”
Toffees keeper Pickford apologised to fans for his blunder.
“Sorry to the Everton fans again, I know how much it means to them,” said the 24-year-old. “As players, we know how much it means to us. You make mistakes every now and again.
“The ball spun and as I tried to flick it over, my hand hit the bar. I think it is the Everton luck when we come to Anfield.
“It’s not something you can learn and train and get better from. It’s just a freak incident.
“There is always a case as a goalkeeper, if you make an error it will lead to a goal. Unfortunately, it has been me.
“There’s nothing I can do about it now. I’m strong mentally and I will get over it. I will be ready for Newcastle on Wednesday.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment