Share this on WhatsApp
The Umunneochi royal fathers supreme assembly of Isukwuato Umunneochi local government area of Abia state has conferred the chieftaincy tile of IKE-OGU NDIGBO on President Muhammadu Buhari.

According a report by the PR Nigeria, His Royal Majesty, Eze Okechukwu Chukwuji, the Logu 1 of Amuda Kingdom said the title is in recognition of president’s “unreserved commitment to the spread and development of infrastructure and other projects in south east.

The chieftaincy title was received on behalf of President Buhari by Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano state, who was in Abia state in his capacity as chairman of the APC national peace and reconciliation committee for south east.
“We appreciate your works and spread of development around the country and especially, the ongoing Enugu, Port Harcourt expressway reconstruction, which has made the movement of goods and services easier within the south east, south south geo-political areas.

”We are particularly happy about this rehabilitation because of our peculiar location as a border local government, with four states, namely Enugu, Ebonyi, Abia and Anambra states.”

Eze Chukwuji further said people in his domain were happy that the Federal Government sited the Aviation Maintenance School within Amuda Isuochi Kingdom and urged the government to do more by rehabilitating the Leru – Isuochi – Oji River Federal road, with an auxiliary way to Umauku.

“We are totally in support of your fight against corruption in this country. Corruption has become endemic in our society. We thank God for bringing a man like you at the helm of affairs in this country at a time the Name Nigeria had become synonymous with corruption.”

The monarch assured of their full support, loyalty and collective prayers towards the success of President Buhari’s re-election bid.

Ganduje who represented the president assured that the Buhari administration would focus more on far – reaching policies even spread of projects across the country.

According to him, “President Muhammadu Buhari is a nationalist. He belongs to all Nigerians and he will continue to carry every section of the country along towards moving our country to the next level of progress.”

The governor stated that the president made key appointments into his cabinet from the South East even as his administration had invested heavily in several infrastructural projects in that part of the country. “

He said: ”President thanks you profoundly for this chieftaincy title which is a demonstration of your love for him. I want to assure you, on his behalf that his administration will continue to do more towards protecting the collective interests of all Nigerians.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment