Share this on WhatsApp
Players and officials of the Senior Women National Team, Super Falcons, have given big kudos to the Nigeria Football Federation for fulfilling all the promises made to them before and during the 11th Women Africa Cup of Nations finals in Ghana, where they emerged triumphant to third successive time and ninth time overall, returning home with the glittering continental silverware.
National Daily learnt that all bonuses and allowances due the team, from the qualifying matches against Gambia as well as entitlements camp allowances pre-AWCON and match bonuses and allowances during AWCON, plus the $10,000 –a –player promise made by President of the NFF, Mr. Amaju Melvin Pinnick, have been duly delivered to the players and officials.
It was a very happy Super Falcons’ contingent that left camp during the week to await word on the planned reception by President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR.
The nine- time African champions, following their penalty shoot –out defeat of South Africa’s Banyana Banyana in Accra on 1st December, were received at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja on arrival the following day by the Chief of Staff to Mr. President, Alhaji Abba Kyari and the General Secretary of Nigeria Football Federation, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi.
Speaking after the camp was declared closed, both captains, Rita Chikwelu and Onome Ebi appreciated the NFF for taking care of their welfare and fulfilling all financial obligations.
Chikwelu said: “I want to use this opportunity to thank the Nigeria Football Federation for their support throughout our preparation and participation at the Women AFCON. They were there all through the pre-tournament camping programmes in Epe and Abidjan and all through the competition in Ghana and since we returned to Nigeria.
“We also want to appreciate the NFF for fulfilling their promises, paying all our bonuses and allowances and doubling our match bonus for the Final. I want to say a very big thank you to the NFF President, the Board and the Management, and we pray that God will bless them and all Nigerians for their support”.
Ebi, on her part, said: “I just want to say a very big thank you to the NFF President, Mr. Amaju Pinnick, the Board members and the Management and Staff for fulfilling their promises and paying all our bonuses, including the special winning bonus that the President promised us for the Final match. All have been paid. I also want to thank Nigerians for their love and support”.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment