Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, says the incessant killings in Zamfara state by armed bandits is a major threat to Nigeria’s democracy, particularly as the nation move towards election period in 2019.

Recall that following repeated killings in the state in recent weeks by armed bandits despite the deployment of soldiers and other security operatives to the state, many have called on the federal government to declare a state of emergency in the state.

The killings led the governor of the state, Abdulaziz Yari, saying he has relinquished his position as chief security officer of the state as he has no control over security agencies.

In a statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu on Thursday, Saraki described the killings as barbaric, unacceptable and called on the security agencies to swiftly devise a strategy to put an end to the ugly situation.

“We should not allow criminal elements to take over parts of the country. The situation in that state is an example of why we need to overhaul our security architecture in order to bring them to a state where they can tackle emerging challenges”, the Senate President stated.

He said unlike in 2015 when the only crisis point in the northern part of the country was the North-east zone, the North-west has today been engulfed by a bloody situation in which human lives are wasted on a daily basis.

Saraki said the killings have gone on for too long and the situation has not been given the desired attention as well as the right strategy that will stop it, adding that there was a clear indication of systemic failure.

“Our security agencies must immediately come out with a proper understanding of the situation, the right strategy and deployment of the necessary troops to tackle the menace. We must within the next few days send the right signals to the criminals in that area that the Nigerian State will no longer tolerate the on-going blood-letting.

“Just as we also flayed the pre-2015 government, the situation in Zamfara presents a picture of the government denying the citizens their fundamental rights to life and rights to own property. The government must correct this by stopping the carnage in Zamfara immediately.

According to him, President Muhammadu Buhari should have arranged a meeting with leaders of the National Assembly, legislators, traditional rulers and other key stakeholders from the affected state, to exchange ideas and proffer lasting solutions to the issue.

“There is need for us to use the Zamfara case to demonstrate to all criminal elements that the government will not tolerate those who hide under whatever guise to shed human blood in our country.”

He said the situation in Zamfara is an example of why the country needs to overhaul its security architecture in order to bring them to a state where they can tackle emerging challenges.