Share this on WhatsApp
A pro-democracy and Non-governmental organization – Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has condemned the reported ban from travelling for the 2019 election by Igbo speaking Nigerians resident in the 19 Northern states by a socio-cultural club – Igbo Development Association in Kaduna.
In a media statement made against the backdrop of the story in circulation about a purported ban from travelling to the South East from the 19 Northern states for purposes of the 2019 polls, HURIWA said such a brazen disrespect to the provisions of the constitution is an affront to civilization and must be disregarded by all right thinking free citizens of Nigeria.
HURIWA quoted the Kaduna based socio cultural association as threatening that any person who flouts the directive would be fined an undisclosed amount of money.
It also reminded the authors of the illegal ban that their public notice amounted to a breach of the section 42 (1) of the constitution which out rightly prohibits discrimination since all other ethnic nationalities cannot come under such a blanket ban that is absolutely illegal and unconstitutional.
The group also cited section 40 and 41 which completely allows citizens of Nigeria the right to either belong to any association or not and the fundamental right to enjoy freedom of movement.
Section 40 “Every person shall be entitled to assemble freely and associate with other persons, and in particular he may form or belong to any political party, trade union or any other association for the protection of his interests.”
41 “Every citizen of Nigeria is entitled to move freely throughout Nigeria and to reside in any part thereof, and no citizen of Nigeria shall be expelled from Nigeria or refused entry thereto or exit therefrom.”
IDA, an administrative umbrella organization of Igbo resident in the northern states and Abuja, was quoted to have said that it wanted the Igbo to stay in their respective states of domicile and cast their votes there.
“We have done a lot of sensitization. We have also educated our people on this and we all agreed. That is why we decided to place an embargo. And if you travel, IDA will fine such person(s),” the organization said in a statement jointly signed by President General Chief Chikezie Nwogu and Secretary General Austin Ofokansi Ifedinezi. The Assembly also urged members to remain law-abiding in their states of residence,” IDA said in statement
HURIWA however cautioned the group to refrain from imposing extralegal measures against citizens of the Federal Republic of Nigeria even if they may be registered members of the body just as the Rights group said it was inconceivable that in this 21st century a group could come up with such medieval body of rules which absolutely offends the clear provisions of the Nigerian constitution which permits freedom of movement to all Nigerians
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment