Share this on WhatsApp







 
The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, blasted President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) over poor management of the economy that led to a monumental job loss of 20.93 million. The opposition party declared that Buhari has utterly failed Nigeria in his over three years in power. The PDP, however, noted that the job report was no surprise because the presidency has rtreied to manipulate the figure through the National Bureau of Statistics.
 
The PDP in a statement in Abuja noted: “We expected a terrible job report, particularly, with the comment on live television from the President’s spokesman, Garba Shehu, that President Buhari had ordered the Statistician General of the Federation, Dr. Yemi Kale, to fudge the latest job reports.”
 
The party stated that the job report released by the National Bureau of Statistics on Wednesday “is not just terrible, it is catastrophic; adding that it shows that under the All Progressives Congress administration, a whopping 20.93 million Nigerians have lost their jobs!”
 
The Opposition PDP said that to put the report in perspective, the unemployed population in Nigeria is now twice the population of Benin Republic.
 
PDP admonished that, Nigeria cannot continue like this, especially, with an administration that continues to blame others for things that they should find solutions for with the latest ridiculous episode being President Buhari’s blaming of former President Jonathan for his own inability to appoint ministers for six months, an action that is directly responsible for the sorry state of unemployment in Nigeria.
 
The PDP then urged Nigerians to note that a President who can’t create jobs or wealth in his own private business cannot create jobs or wealth for the public because you cannot give what you does not have.
 
The Party decried that right now, Nigeria is the world headquarters of extreme poverty saying, our main challenge is jobs.
Thus, PDP declared: “Atiku Abubakar is an expert at job and wealth creation having created 50,000 jobs in his own private capacity.
 
“Whatever is entrusted into the hands of Waziri Atiku Abubakar blooms. This is a man who will never have 150 cattle year in and year out. This is a man who will never blame others and will always accept responsibility for changing things. Nigeria needs jobs and Atiku means JOBS.”
 
The party commended the Statistician General of the Federation for having the courage to stand up to President Buhari by releasing the inconvenient truth about the state of unemployment in Nigeria.








Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment