Share this on WhatsApp

Popular Nigerian blogger, Linka Ikeji opened up on her relationship with oil magnate, Sholaye Jeremi. In which she claimed Jeremi’s refusal to go on with an initially agreed wedding planned amongst other allegations.

Social Media have since given several throlls and opinions to the matter. But in all of this Mr. Jeremi has been quiet. National Daily, Trends editor, sends an open letter asking him to defend him self soon enough before the coming of the general elections.

Here is the comic open letter:

Dear Jeremi,

If you must reply Linda Ikeji do so between now and December 25th. We don’t want people stealing the attention pre 2019 general elections. Other pending viral stories and fights should hold until after the elections.

This will not be business as usual. We want to take this election serious. So this is a special warning to people like PSquare, Tiwa Savage…

Mr P and Rude Boy — don’t settle and quarrel during this period. The people who make crying videos about your squabbles have their PVCs. We don’t want them crying and refusing to vote.

Tiwa and Wizkid — please don’t release another music video until after February 2019, the last stew isn’t sour yet. Don’t come up with Egusi or something else yet.

Who else is always going viral with wahala?

Okay Davido, please no more Baby Mamas this period. Use condoms. And if you don’t and a lady comes saying you are the father. Please father the baby quietly until after elections.

Bloggers!

Please take it easy too this period. We know you guys want hits and views on your stories. But for this period just try to ignore. If you see Simi doing Adekunle Gold even in traffic just ignore — let’s call it a see-no-gossip and say-no-gossip period.

So who else are we missing?

All the pending separation gists please stay pending. We will report it after the elections.

Hopefully, Daddy Freeze will freeze (as in, pause) with the mission to free the sheepos.

Just ignore the pastors. Let them collect their tithe in peace this period. Just be jotting their offences until we are done and dusted with the business of 2019 elections.

Then all these Facebook Groups with quirky daily erotic posts, e.g ‘What do you say before a BJ’ e.t.c. let’s try and tone down the erotics. We need our guys thinking with their main heads this period. Just keep your group running with dry posts e.g ‘How do you say good morning in your language’ e.t.c.

Reekado Banks has successfully left Mavin now o. We didn’t hear any ugly talk and beef o. I hope Don Jazzy is not postponing the bitterness to January o. Talk now so we can all hammer it with you and close it before the elections come.

Hope JoEL of Kennis Music won’t borrow a leaf from Banks? The last time Jaywon left that record label ‘we no hear word o’.

So please guys. We can do this.

All we are saying is no more distraction until March.

— No Pamela Why stories,
— No Small Girl, Big God wahala,
— No Na Dem They Rush Us saga,
— No Four Eggs Per Meal issue,
— No Food Without Meat palava,
— No Everywhere Stew things,
— No Assurance or Insurance stunts,

We can do this guys.

Signed,
Ediale
Social Media, Editor.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment