These Coaches are in a class of their own with their remarkable achievement as coaches.
In 2016, Imama won the NPFL with Rangers International and ever since then he has been in the headline of sound and technical prowess of the game. He is currently the direct assistant of Super Eagles head coach which means one would think his technical savvy enough to lead an NPFL outfit.
Boboye has been a coach with a difference leading Plateau United FC to the NPFL Title after a 35 years wait transforming the team along the way.
He would also have to take credit for the mass exodus to foreign club by no less than five of his wards who left for proverbial Golden Fleece in Europe and Saudi Arabia.
Boboye is currently in the U 23 technical crew as an assistant coach.
One might think two coaches in Nigeria National sets up will able to add value to the NPFL.
John Obuh is more or less a veteran NPFL coach having led Kano Pillars, Sharks, Rangers International, Niger Tornadoes and Kwara United at various time over his extensive career.
He was also the Head Coach at Sharks FC while Imama was his Chief Coach and Boboye his Assistant Coach.
Coach John Obuh won the WAFU Cup after 33 years for Sharks with Imama and Boboye was part of that victorious team members of the technical crew.
These three Coaches have broken records of ages yet have no club at the moment.
NPFL is gradually losing hot value as clubs believes anyone can do the job now since it still requires logistics in every game play.
I can authoritatively say the technical savvy of these three coaches in NPFL can never be undermined, with their rich  resumes and good managerial acumen which improve the league just like EPL without Pep Guadiola, Jose Mourinho.
May be the answer is the high salary earn by these coaches with the least earned salary by any one of these coaches being 1.5 million naira per month.
But most NPFL clubs are looking for coaches who earn between seven hundred thousand and one million naira in salary.
A club in the South East is rumored to even pay its Technical Adviser four hundred thousand per months which is too ridiculous.
As the adage rightly said “Good food requires good money.”

			
			Post Views: 
			85