Share this on WhatsApp


By Esther Egbe

Isaac Success feared his Premier League dream was over before it had really began,he was celebrating a goal with Watford teammates in the English Premier League Life under Marco Silva had lost its shine,National Daily learnt.

Frozen out, injured , alone , insecure , he was a £ 12. 5 m striker devoid of confidence , making poor decisions and ready to turn his back on English football .


Success explained that “ I won ’ t lie ,i was having difficulties and i thought English football wasn’ t for me ,i reflects on my lost season from a happier place ahead of Watford ’ s first reunion with Silva , at Everton on Monday (today ).


Nigerian striker added that “The coach didn’ t really believe in me . I wasn’ t fit enough. I wasn ’ t ready , physically or mentally. Coming back from injury and all, I was frustrated . All the other players were really sharp and doing well .


He said “ It was difficult to get my chance and I wanted games to lose some weight and get back all I’ d lost . My career stood still . Being alone , not feeling my future was safe, that worried me . Mentally I wasn’ t OK . It was really tough , and not knowing about the lifestyle side of football in England , I didn’ t get it right . ”

Success spent his summer running , checked in with a personal trainer , shed weight , kicked some bad habits and even gave up his beloved jollof rice to adhere to Gracia’ s new dietary regime.


The transformation has been impressive and his reward has been to feature in every Premier League game this season , starting six of the last seven , ending his long wait for another goal and signing a new five – year contract ,he said.


Success said . “I made mistakes because I wasn ’ t working hard and needed to concentrate more . I’ ll always be the same person but I needed to reduce everything I was doing and I’ ve reduced it .


“I stuck to my plan . When you ’ re fit it ’ s more difficult to get injured , and if you ’ re injured you recover on time . So , this season is going well because physically I’ m fine.

I lost a couple of kilos and that made me faster and stronger . I feel sharper.
“ I have a coach who believes in me and he gives me confidence and freedom to do what I want on the pitch.


“ I was eating a lot of African food and it was a little bit heavy but I’ ve cut that out and I’ m on the team diet, eating with the team . Eating earlier at night , it ’ s really helped .


“ All of this has been a big change in my career and I say a big thank you to the Watford family for believing in me and for keeping me – and hoping I can get better . I am getting better . I am grateful for that. ”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment