Share this on WhatsApp



The PSG requires 90 million more to comply with financial fair play. Madrid would be the first club to participate in the bidding for their cracks.
The threat from UEFA to leave PSG out of the Champions League for breaching the financial fair play is still valid. The French club could be forced to sell Neymar or Mbappé to balance their accounts and meet the demands of UEFA. In the event that scenario were given, Madrid would be the first to participate in the bid.
Last December 14, L’Equipe informed that the revision of the valuation of the sponsorship contracts of the French club could make it enter in red numbers, thus provoking the sanction of the UEFA that already dodged in June. The Adjudication Chamber of the Club Financial Control Agency has devalued PSG’s sponsorship contracts with Qatar companies (Qatar Tourism Authority, Qatar National Bank, Ooredoo, beIN Sports and Aspetar) by 37%.
So based on the information from L’Equipe and the data leaked by Football Leaks, the calculation gives that the PSG needs 170 million to avoid the sanction of the UEFA. Precisely, the revenues of the Champions are the main economic injection to achieve this financial objective. So far, the PSG has already secured 80 million in this edition (last season only 18 million entered). However, it would still be 90 million short to match the accounts. And all this if the investigation does not find irregularities in the transfers of Neymar and Mbappé, which would cause the economic situation of PSG to get even worse. In 2014, the Parisian club was already sanctioned with 60 million euros, which it had to pay in three years, for breaching the financial fair play.
Between the two they have 32 goals this season
PSG is leading the French league with 13 points ahead of Lille, and is qualified for the last 16 of the Champions League (will face Manchester United). And thanks in large part to Neymar and Mbappé. Each of them has 16 goals in 19 games (0.84 per game). This means that between the two they have scored 45% of the 71 goals that PSG have scored so far this season. The 16 goals of Neymar are shared 11 in the league and five in the Champions. While Mbappé has scored 13 in the domestic championship and three in the Champions League. The figures of the two stars of the PSG surpass any of the strikers of Madrid. The top white scorer is Benzema. The Frenchman has scored 11 goals in 26 matches. This represents an average of 0.42 goals per game. Behind him is Bale. The Welsh forward has played 22 games and has scored 10 goals (0.45 per game).





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment