Share this on WhatsApp



President Muhammadu Buhari has dismissed the cloning allegations against him, describing those behind the allegation as ‘‘ignorant and irreligious.’’
In statement signed by the Senior Special Assistant to the president on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu on Sunday, President Buhari said some of the peddlers even reached out to the Vice President to consider them to be his deputy because they assumed he was dead.
While responding to a question at an interactive session with the Nigerian Community in Krakow, Poland, President Buhari said a lot of people hoped that he died during my his health.
“That embarrassed him a lot and of course, he visited me when I was in London convalescing… It’s real me; I assure you.’’
The Nigerian leader said he was looking forward to celebrating his 76th birthday on Dec. 17 and jocularly added: ‘‘If I am getting harassed by anyone, it is my grandchildren, who are getting too many.’’
The President used the occasion to reiterate that his government would continue to maintain focus and deliver on the three focal points of his campaign in 2015: security, economy and the fight against corruption.
President Buhari, who is in Poland to attend the UN Climate Change Conference COP24, reaffirmed that “no territory of Nigeria is under the control of Boko Haram terrorists’’.
He called on Nigerians to remain vigilant and supportive of Federal Government’s efforts to ensure the security of lives and property in the country.
While acknowledging that it had not been easy financing the security sector in the country, the president said the Nigerian Armed Forces were equal to the task.
The president noted that it was regrettable that herdsmen and farmers clashes in the country had been politicised, assuring that the Nigerian government would continue to “prioritise security because that is what many investors consider first before investing in the country.’’
On the fight against corruption, he said all recovered stolen assets would be sold and the proceeds returned to the treasury for the benefit of Nigerians.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment