The Executive Director of the management board of Lagos International Trade Fair Complex, Chief Lucy Omasefe Ajayi has urged Nigerians to vote President Muhammadu Buhari in next general elections on account of his sincerity in making live more meaningful for all.
The LITFC boss who doubles as the Yeye Oge of Oke Ogbere kingdom made this plea while hosting the carol of nine lessons of Saint Jude Anglican Church, Mende Maryland which was the first amongst four carols lined up by the church at her Maryland Crescent resident.
The host who also testified to God’s goodness over the years in her life, said that been a true Nigerian worth’s much more than gold,citing the influence of her northern affiliates from the Mile 12 market of Kosofe area as a very good pillar of support which played down tribal sentiment.
She went further to cite the importance of voting right in the coming 2019 general elections, adding that PMB is real.
“Regarding the coming election, it is going to be peaceful and you can see from the unset, what I am seeing that is making me happy is that the MDA’s most of us are not spending monies on campaign as it used to be and the President even said it that all MDA’s all civil servants should not spend money on his campaign.
“That is the impression that I have, he feels that his works will speak for him, for those who sincerely love Nigeria, they should vote PMB for he is real,from PMB because I am
his daughter we wish you merry Christmas and happy New Year.
The carol, which witnessed a huge turn out of members of the church, friends and well wishers of the host associates.
The carol was officiated by the Vicar of the Church, Reverend Canon Gbekeloluwa Odusanya and assisted by Revs. Dare Adelusi and Femi Agbolade.
According to the vicar Nigeria will less chaotic if we imbibe the lessons of peace,love and tolerance which sums up the essence of Christmas celebration.
“The message of Christmas is a message of love that human being we are made in God’s image, so Nigerians should live in love, wherever you come from, north, east, south or west we should have love among us in Nigeria, we should live in peace and live well, Christ just came to us, he offered himself completely.
“Therefore I want us to know as Nigerians that God loves us as a nation and that love he has showed us in his son Jesus Christ who said we must live our lives in Love and
serve one another in love and make the love of God to multiply and increase in our daily activities.
“If exhibit love in Nigeria we won’t
be having chaos and things will go on well,” The Vicar submits.
The husband of the host, Chief Ajayi , read the first passage of the evening followed by the second read by the host.
There were free Christmas hats for all courtesy the host,with soul lifting hymns to commemorate the yuletide season was rendered by the members of the church while the current Miss Lagos State University, Miss James Esther, rendered popular Christmas songs to the admiration of all.
There was lot for all to eat and drink while the vicar prayed for a peaceful and hitch free journey into 2019 for Nigerians and Nigeria.

			
			Post Views: 
			119