Share this on WhatsApp
Six lecturers of the Osun State college of Education have been reportedly kidnapped in the Onikan Oje area of the state.

This news of the abduction was contained in a report published by Vanguard on Wednesday, December 5.

National daily recalls that a lecturer at the Bayero University in Kano state, Saminu Aliyu Kiri, was kidnapped by unknown people. He was kidnapped alongside two other people.

Kiri, a member of the computer science department, was kidnapped while on his way back from supervising a Student Industrial Work Experience Scheme (SIWES) believed to be somewhere in Shaki, Oyo state.

Meanwhile, it was previously reported that a lecturer at the Veritas University, Bwari, Abuja, was reportedly kidnapped by gunmen who raided the institution on Monday, May 7, around 12am.

The abducted lecturer, Michael Kwanashie, is also a Catholic priest and serves as a personal assistant to the vice chancellor of the university.

The lecturer lived in the same room with the school chaplain, Aloysius Achonwa, who reportedly hid in the roof during the raid.

A student at the school who identified herself as Mbafan, said the gunmen demanded N15m ransom as condition for releasing the lecturer.

She said: “It was around 12am when we heard gunshots. Everyone froze in fear. It was in the morning we learnt that the attackers had abducted the priest and were demanding N15m ransom.”

In another previous report  three lecturers of University of Maiduguri (UNIMAID) and policewomen abducted by Boko Haram terrorist group in Magumeri and Damboa road, near Maiduguri, Borno state, had been released.

This was made known in a series of tweet on Saturday, February 10, by the senior special adviser to the president on media and publicity, Garba Shehu, on his official and verified handle.

Their release was said to have followed a series negotiations as directed by President Muhammadu Buhari.

The women were abducted along Damboa Road when their convoy was carrying the body of a dead police personnel home for burial.

The university lecturers were abducted while conducting oil prospective in the Lake Chad area on behalf of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC).
According to the presidential spokesman, their release was facilitated by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), following a series of negotiations as directed by President Buhari.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment