The former Minister of Works and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Engineer Adeseye Ogunlewe, accuses leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) of sponsoring a candidate who is an indigene of Ijebu Ijesha for the 2019 governorship election in Lagos State.
Ogunlewe on The Morning Show of ARISE Television monitored from Lagos on Monday, said that the APC is being destroyed because of the interest of one man. He protested that APC leaders frustrated Governor Akinwumi Ambode from seeking re-election for second term despite his performance in the past three and half years. “They stopped Ambode and now brought somebody from Ijebu Ijesha (Ogun State) to be Governor of Lagos State, does it mean that Lagos indigenes don’t have qualified person to be governor,” Ogunlewe declared. He said that the interest of one man is destroying APC as the preparations for 2019 elections intensify.
Ogunlewe said that the numerous conflicts in APC would affect the party’s chances of winning the 2019 elections. Thus, he said that PDP will defeat APC in 2019.
Ogunlewe was of the view that PDP will win Osun, Ekiti and Oyo states. He noted that after former Governor Olusegun Mimiko of Ondo State defected to the Labour Party and stepped down from the presidential race to pick ticket for the Senate, Ondo State has become open to any political party. He said that Lagos is 50 50 chance for the PDP and APC, adding that Ogun is also 50 50 chance because of the conflict between Governor Ibikunle Amosun and APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole.
Ogunlewe stated that Oshiomhole is destroying APC and fighting APC governors at a time the party is preparing for elections. The former Minister noted that Oshiomhole is at war with two critical APC leaders, saying, the APC chairman is fighting the chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum, Governor Yari of Zamfara State; and Chairman of APC Governors Forum, Rochas Okorocha of Imo State. He chided Oshiomhole for disrespecting the governors and imposing his will over APC leaders.
Ogunlewe disclosed that Oshiomhole is destroying APC because Tinubu plans to be president in 2023.

			
			Post Views: 
			46