Share this on WhatsApp



The Spiritual Director of the Adoration Ministry, Enugu Nigeria, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka has predicted doom’s day for the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Muhammadu Buhari and the Presidential candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku.
He said none of them would win, but failed to mention the eventual winner.
The fiery Catholic Priest spoke during the 2018 harvest and bazaar celebration at his Adoration Ground in Emene.
Mbaka said it was bad and scandalous before the Holy Spirit that after their prayers on Adoration altar made Buhari the President, he has refused come back to thank God.
He also narrated how his ministry’s prayers saved Buhari from deadly sickness in 2015.
The Priest said “anybody with Buhari’s ears should warn him that no one cheats God, that after he thinks he is healthy, his sickness may come in another form.”
On former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku, Mbaka said that “if he continued on the same trajectory, he and his running mate would end in shame.”
Speaking in Igbo, Mbaka said, “Ask Atiku if it is these steps that the cow will take to reach Umuahia.”
Mbaka concluded by requesting that Atiku should reach out to Igbo leaders like Hon. Ike Ekweremadu and also come personally to adoration ground and do a project for them.”
He also berated Atiku’s running mate, Mr. Peter Obi.
Though he said they had always supported Obi, he stated that Obi had not done anything for his church.
He said God would bless Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State and grant them second term for what they had done for him.
Fr. Mbaka curiously withheld Obi’s blessing and said he would only release it after Obi had done a project for them. Using Umahi as an example, Mbaka said: “Umahi donated 1,000 bags of rice and 1,000 tubers of yam to us, but it meant nothing to me until he handed N10 million cheque to me and promised to build a project for the ministry. This is the type of gesture we require from Obi”, he said.
While acknowledging the donation of N500,000 from Obi as his money for breaking of kolanut, he said “stinginess is not a virtue.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment