Share this on WhatsApp
Just as Nigeria is refusing to bow their heads in submission as a result of Saturday’s 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup in Paris, Africa’s two other flagbearers, Cameroon and South Africa, are keeping their heads up.





“It’s not a death sentence,” Desire Ellis, Head Coach of Banyana Banyana of South Africa, told thenff.com. “We knew we would be drawn against very strong teams and that is exactly what we got. This is our first time at the World Cup so everyone will look at South Africa as an underdog. We like it that way.

“For now, we have already scheduled games against European champions, The Netherlands, as well as Sweden, and we will play the USA as well. We will be ready for the tournament.”

Banyana Banyana lost on penalty shoot –out to Nigeria in the final of the Women AFCON in Ghana a week ago, and have now been drawn to play two –time champions Germany, China and Spain in Group B of the global showpiece in the summer of 2019.

President of the South Africa Football Association, Dr. Danny Jordaan, said: “There are 211 Member Associations of FIFA, and only 24 are here. There are 55 countries in Africa and only three are here. So, we should naturally expect to be drawn against the top teams. We are also a top team; that’s why we are here.”

As for Coach Joseph Buan Ndoko of Cameroon’s Indomitable Lionesses, the draw means the team has to work very, very hard. “Some people are saying we got a favourable draw but I’m not seeing it that way. We have to go and prepare well and hard. None of the 24 finalists is an easy team.”

Cameroon, who also lost to Nigeria on penalty shoot –out, in the semi finals of the Women AFCON in Ghana, will play in Group E alongside Canada, New Zealand and The Netherlands.

ALL THE GROUPS

GROUP A
France
Korea Republic
Norway
Nigeria

GROUP B
Germany
China
Spain
South Africa

GROUP C
Australia
Italy
Brazil
Jamaica

GROUP D
England
Scotland
Argentina
Japan

GROUP E
Canada
Cameroon
New Zealand
The Netherlands

GROUP F
USA
Thailand
Chile
Sweden








Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment