Share this on WhatsApp
Toni Kroos has spoken in an interview in Esquire. The Real Madrid midfielder talks about his future outside football, his life in Madrid, why he always wears white sneakers or his life outside football.
Coach: “I would not like to be a coach, I do not want to have the same life as now, without stopping traveling, not being just at home … it’s even worse, because you have to take care of the team. Mr.
Another profession: “I do not know, I did not have time to think about it.” At the age of 16, when other children were thinking about being older, I was already a footballer, I started training with Bayern at that age and when I was 17 I made my debut in the first team … that’s how easy it is to choose a trade. ”
Change from Munich to Madrid: “It was a big step, I was 24 years old and leaving my country cost me, but I feel very good here, my wife is great, the children are delighted, I am successful, the weather is good … and now You know, the ham is much better. ”
White sneakers: “Here you have white sneakers, maybe it’s a psychological problem, I do not know, but I need them, for me today it’s a big challenge because I’m wearing black boots.”
Childhood: “When I was a kid I watched a lot of football on TV and went out to play with my little brother (Felix Kroos plays in the Berlin Union.) At first it was fun but I realized that I was not doing so bad … and even Yes, the truth is that it could have been much worse. ”
Hobby of tennis and basketball: “I can not say that they are my favorite sports because I am a soccer player but …”.
Fundación Kroos: “I am fortunate, I have a family, we all have health, work on what I like … I feel that I have to give something back to society When you see the faces of children and their families, it is clear that you are doing things well and it’s something that excites me. ”
Children soccer players: “I would help them, but if they do not want nothing happens, it is not something that is important to me, I want both Leon and Amelie as the third child we are expecting to be good people and do with their lives what they do happy, as I have done “.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment