Share this on WhatsApp



“Young people think piloting is the only career in Aviation”


Urhoghide Aizeyosabor Drizella, 22, is a graduate of industrial mathematics from the University of Benin. The second born from a family of seven. She hails from Benin City, Edo State and is very passionate about Children. She says
“I love traveling, researching and listening to good music. I am daring, adventrous and fun to be with’.

 

Give us a the story of how you became a model and now a queen?
 

From an early age I’ve always wanted to be a public speaker and a philanthropist even though I had no clue at the time of how I was going to achieve that. When I was fifteen years old I was cajoled into my first Pageant because of my stature (I didn’t have any interest at the time) but then in preparing for the pageant I got to find out that you can actually make great positive impact in your society as a beauty queen and that immediately stirred up my interest. I’ve been interested in pageantry since then.

 
Since winning MAMAN what has changed?
 

Since winning Miss Aviation Nigeria my orientation about the Aviation industry has changed as I now have a better understanding of what the Sector is really all about. I’ve also greatly developed in my people relation skills and in entrepreneurship because we had facilitators enlighten us in these areas during the boot camp for the pageant and I’ve had the opportunity to meet several good people.

 
Why MAMAN instead of other regular beauty peagent?
 

 I chose Miss Aviation Nigeria, first because I was really interested in the aviation industry but it had always seemed too complex to me and Miss Aviation Nigeria was a way for me to connect with the sector better. Secondly because I had a revelation from God that it was going to be a fair and successful event.

 
You emerged winner what’s next?
 

Mr And Miss Aviation Nigeria (MAMAN) has ensured quite a lot of schedule for me. I am about to embark on a project titled “Aviation Beyond the Pilot” which will enlighten young Nigerians on the various opportunities available in the aviation sector, charity outreaches amongst other things. I’m also going to get a free Aviation training Courtesy of JAVI AVIATION and hopefully get an outstanding career in the Aviation sector myself. Personally I hope that winning this title will open more doors of opportunities for me in the entertainment industry and create more avenues for me to impact positively in Nigeria.

 
How was the competition and in your own view why were you better than the rest of models on the MAMAN stage?
 

In my own view, the competition was interesting, educative and fair. A very successful maiden edition indeed. I wouldn’t really say I was better than all the contestants on that stage but what I do know is that I put in my very best from the day I filled the form online until the very last moment of the competition not taking any detail for granted and by God’s grace my best was good enough.

 
Your academic background doesn’t suggest you’d become a queen or a model. What happened?
 

Well, in simple terms, life happened (laughs). I ve always believed there’s a difference between your profession and your passion, I’m an Industrial Mathematician by profession but impacting lives through pageantry is my passion and it always pays more to follow your passion… So yeah…that’s what happened.

What is your regular daily routine like? 
 

My daily routine for most days(especially the good days) is like this: I wake by 4am, have my quiet time and pray until about 6am, do a little reading, browse om my phone for a while then I do a 15-30mins mild workout (in my bedroom).


Then I take my bath and I’m off for the day, either to work (as a photographer) or to whatever event, meeting or appearance I need to conquer for the day.


(I almost always never have breakfast which I believe is not so healthy but….).


When I’m done for the day usually at about 8pm I’m back home, I take dinner, freshen up, say a prayer of thanksgiving, press my phone for a while and sleep. I don’t work out every day though.

 
What physical attribute would you mark as your unique selling point?
 

That would definitely be my smile.

 
What basic talent do you posses as potential?
 

I’m a very good thespian and I’m very good with words either in terms of poetry or in addressing a crowd or giving a speech. I’m also quite a good dancer and a creative script writer.


 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment