Share this on WhatsApp
Take it Back Movement/African Action Congress, on Sunday, raised alarm over the arrest of five members of the African Action Congress, AAC, in the early hours of Sunday in Lagos State for pasting posters by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Government of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
Sowore’s Campaign Office in a statement lamented that the arrested supporters of the ACC Presidential candidate were still detention nine hours after their arrest.
Rachel Onamusi-Kpiasi, Director, PR, Media and Communications, Take it Back Movement/African Action Congress, in the statement said that persons who showed interest in the release of  the arrested persons, after discussions with the Police who carried out the arrest, were told that the orders came directly from the Police Commissioner.
She noted that the arrested five supporters of their presidential candidate were not violating any law. “Pasting of posters and creating awareness for the only alternative candidate to the rot that has decimated our nation is not and has never been a crime in Nigeria, and this recent act of injustice suffered by the Take It Back Movement, the AAC and the presidential candidate, Omoyele Sowore, is a further proof that the APC is not interested in a free, fair election or in doing what is best for Nigerians,” the media director declared.
“Every step of the AAC’s campaign has been dogged with impediments and outright blocks from the ruling party.
“From cancelled TV interviews to withdrawal of rally permits in the northern part of Nigeria, the Buhari-led government has launched a vendetta campaign against the one party resolved in bettering the lives of Nigerians,” she lamented.
Onamusi-Kpiasi stated complained that there are no guesses why APC has taken offence against the AAC.
The statement further declared: “While unwilling to pay hardworking Nigerians N30,000 a month for work done as minimum wage, the African Action Congress promises a living wage of N100,000 per month.
“While the incumbent government looks the other way while Nigerians are being killed in their droves by terrorists, the AAC promises prosecution and tougher security measures to guarantee the safety and protection of Nigerians.
“While the APC wakes from its slumber and cluelessness after three years of governance to offer Nigerians bread and N10,000 in exchange for their souls, the AAC not only promises to work from day one, but also shows exactly how it plans to execute these tasks and where the funding will come from.
“Certainly, it is clear that the APC has no intention of leading Nigeria with incorruption, integrity or probity but we will continue to fight because Nigerians deserve better than the dire hand they’ve been dealt. “
ACC insisted: “Nigeria must progress, and we will uphold the struggle until she does.” 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment