The Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim K. Idris, has ordered the implementation of robust and elaborate security arrangement to ensure a hitch-free Christmas and New Year Celebration and adequate security for all political parties in the on-going political rallies and campaigns across the country.
Acting Deputy Commissioner of Police, Jimoh Moshood, Force Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, Abuja, in a statement, highlighted that the comprehensive crime prevention and detection strategies and other operational measures will include the commencement of intensive raids of identified criminal hideouts, black spots and flash points across the Country.
The Inspector General of Police further directed the Commissioners of Police and their supervisory Assistant Inspectors General of Police to be on ground to ensure adequate Safety of lives and property of all Nigerians during and after the period. The IGP re-emphasized same directives to all Commanders of Police Mobile Force (PMF), Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU) and Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (F-SARS) to ensure deployments of their personnel under the supervision of the Commissioners of police in the States and the FCT to flash points and crisis spots in the various commands across the Country.
In addition, Police Special Forces and specialized units of the Force, including Special Tactical Squad, Special Protection Unit, Border Patrol and Explosive Ordinance Department have been adequately mobilized and deployed along with the conventional Policemen to beef up security in their Area of Responsibilities (AOR) to ensure safety of lives and property throughout the period of Christmas and New Year celebration and beyond.
Moshood further said that Police Federal Highway Patrol Teams, Safer Highway Teams, Divisional Patrol Teams and other tactical squads have been mandated and are under strict instruction to be polite, civil but strict in ensuring security and safety of travellers and other road users on all the highways and major roads throughout the country. The motor traffic divisions of the Force in every State are to ensure free flow of traffic throughout the highways and major roads in the Country. They are to enforce the road traffic act in totality.  
The Inspector General of Police also directed the Assistant Inspector General of Police and Commissioners of Police to ensure that no roadblock is mounted anywhere in the country, including those by revenue agencies who are prohibited by law not to obstruct any road or highway under the guise of collecting revenue. CPs and AIGs to ensure visibility police and crime prevention patrols in their Area of Responsibilities (AOR) throughout the country, this is to make sure that safety and free passage for all travellers nationwide are guaranteed.
The personnel of the Force will be on 24 hours round-the-clock surveillance and robust vehicular patrols throughout the Yuletide and the New Year. Particular attention and adequate police deployment will also be carried out on places of worship and venues of celebration including strategic public places, recreation centres, shopping malls, business plazas, motor parks, Government installations and other important locations so as to forestall any criminal activity and guarantee the safety of the citizenry.

			
			Post Views: 
			285