Share this on WhatsApp
By Lanre Adesanya 




The newly inaugurated Coordinator of the Independent Campaign Group (ICG) for the All Progressives Congress candidates in Lagos Island East, Honourable Ganiu Ajose has charged electorates to work assiduously to secure the party’s good political fortune.
Ajose mobilized over three hundred people from all walks of life; artisans, traders, stakeholders, Community Development Committee (CDC) and different community representatives to galvanize a support base which will guarantee enough votes for Mr Babajide Sanwoolu come 2019 polls.
“Babajide Sanwoolu is from Lagos Island East that is why we felt out of the 57 local governments we should be the first, charity begins at home.
“That is if we had 10,000 votes in time past we should now double our efforts to have over 20,000, now that we have so much at stake. Please as you commit yourself to the ICG course also give unflinching support for APC.
Commenting on the reason for the gathering, Ajose said, It is not vote buying but awareness to prepare our people for the voting process, so that when the campaign starts we can be on the same page.
“We are aware of how important the people are in politics and often times proper sensitization had been done with respect to ensuring they go get their permanent voters card, being the only way to secure the seat for gubernatorial candidate and return our President back to Aso Rock and other candidates for other positions.
“We are registering more members as well to APC; we are also collating names of those yet to collect their PVC to evolve easy access.
“We are having this get together to bring aggrieved members on board so as to team up and toe same path, here today are many of those aspirants who vied for a seat or the other and they have been charged to work for APC success.
“It is an injury we need to ensure is healed, Saheed Salawe who contested Federal House of representatives, for which Akiolu is now our candidate is here same goes for other contenders they are all here on the table because they have realized that in all the party supremacy holds.
“It is about the people and what we can do as a united party; we need not be divided, so that we can secure the seat for Jide Sanwoolu, this only possible if we are united.
Mudashiru Odetunde (aka shiner) also canvassed support for Sanwoolu stressing that he is a good product and given his pedigree Lagos is in safe hands if he is voted in.
Jebe Abdulahi- Ahmad Director for Islamic affairs in the ICG said that Sanwoolu if elected will consolidate on Ambode’s achievement that informs the move to galvanize a support base for him.
In election when you have right persons in the saddle no one would complain everybody is carried along in the religious setting there is no problem at all, women are happy, remember  Dr. Kadiri Hamzat once contested for the governorship seat in the previous primaries but now he is the Deputy
Governorship candidate, you can see it is a merger from all fronts and we are all in sinc with it.
The woman leader, Mrs Abiade Muibat however cites the motive of women in politics and their stance in the new arrangement where APC churns our male/male ticket for the governor and deputy.
“We have numerous benefits for women in politics, like empowerment for traders, consideration when opportunity arises like job placement slots as well as other largesse.
“We have some reservations for the recent development the all male affairs thing in Lagos contrary to what it used to be but we are assuaged by the fact that we still have our Senator Mrs Oluremi Tinubu to give the needed succour as she never toys with anything that bothers us as women she is really trying.
“Government should give us the rightful opportunity we deserve even if
not all,  they should try and make us happy.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment