Share this on WhatsApp

The top-trending lists contain major events in news, loses, movies, sports, lyrics and questions Nigerian asked Google in 2018.

Read on to see the biggest news stories of the year according to Google:

1. Osun Elections
The Osun state gubernatorial election generated a lot of controversy after the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, declared it inconclusive. The ruling party (APC) candidate, Gboyega Oyetola later emerged as the governor of the state.

2. Ekiti Elections
The candidate of All Progressive Congress (APC) in Ekiti state, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, defeated his closest rival and candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Prof Kolapo Olusola.

3. PDP Presidential Primaries
In October 2018, the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Pary (PDP) conducted presidential primary elections. Former vice President, Atiku Abubakar emerged as the party’s flag bearer after a rigorous elections.

4. ASUU Strike

In November 2018, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) kicked off indefinite strike by the non-implementation of the Memorandum of Action (MOA) signed with the Federal Government.

5. NLC Strike / Minimum Wage

In September, Nigerian workers declared an indefinite nationwide warning strike to press home demands over a meagre $50 (N18,000) monthly minimum wage. The Nigerian workers under the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) are demanding an increase in the minimum wage to about $140 (N50,000).

6. Offa Robbery

In April 2018, an armed robbery attacked about five banks in Offa communities, Kwara state and carted away an unspecified amount of money in different currencies. The Offa bank robbery is also another prominent issue in the fraud and forgery cases recorded in Nigeria in 2018.

7. Kaduna Crisis

The Kaduna crisis in October 2018, claimed more than 20 lives in various parts of the state’s metropolis caused by rumour and fake news across social media.

8. Lagos APC Primaries
The Lagos APC primaries set another landmark in the political arena of the country as an incumbent governor lost a re-election bid. Babatunde Sanwo-Olu emerged as APC flagbearer for the 2019 gubernatorial election in Lagos backed power brokers led by Bola Tinubu.

9. Royal Wedding
The Royal Wedding of Meghan Markle and Prince Harry on May 29, reportedly cost a staggering N16.2 billion, the cost was the total internal revenue generated by three Nigerian states in 2017. The three states – Bauchi made N4. 36 billion, Ekiti N4.96 billion and Kebbi made N4.39 billion.

10. Atiku Running Mate
In October, Atiku Abubakar picked a former governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi, as his running mate for the 2019 election.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment