For Lagos State steadfastness in promoting sports tourism in the country, the Governor of the state, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode has been given a special award of recognition by the Federal Government of Nigeria through the Ministry of Youths and Sports in Abuja during the closing ceremony of the 19th National Sports Festival.

The award titled Promotion of International Sports Tourism Award is in recognition of Governor Ambode’s unrelenting support to the staging of numerous international championships in Lagos, which have seen many foreign players and athletes coming to Nigeria. Foreign athletes have  also seen Lagos as a sports hub and sports destination in Africa.

These have in turn expose the tourism potentials of not only in Lagos but Nigeria to the world.

The International Sports Tourism award was received on behalf of the Governor by the Executive Chairman of the Governing Board of Lagos State Sports Commission, Dr Kweku Tandoh from the Sports Minister, Solomon Dalung.

The award was to celebrate Lagos position in Nigerian sports as the undisputed centre of excellence in sports, tracing the good moments which national teams have enjoyed at the National Stadium in Surulere, Lagos and numerous laurels won at the sports city.

“No state have ever associated to the National Sports Festival than Lagos State. Lagos hosted the first edition in 1973 and the last in 2012 tagged Eko 2012. Lagos has done commendably well in sports over the years. The state had and has continued to host numerous national and international sporting competitions.

” Under the leadership of Governor Ambode, Lagos has continued to set the pace in expanding the sports tourism with substantial investments in facilities and discovery of young talents,” the citation of the award reads.


Lagos State Government has continued its support to the organization of international classics in Table Tennis, Taekwondo, Squash, Badminton and the Lagos Open, formerly the Governor’s Cup Lagos Tennis Championship. The influx of international players to Lagos has also conferred the status of emerging mega city of the world on Lagos.

Meanwhile, awards of recognition were also given to the Rivers State Governor,  Nyesom Wike for oganizing the African Wrestling Championship in Africa. Delta State Governor,  Ifeanyi Okowa for hosting African Athletics Championship and the state wining the 2012 National Sports Festival and 2018 edition in Abuja.


			
			PV: 
			0