Share this on WhatsApp


Started off on a bad note

Simi Live In Lagos show finally kicked off properly at about 9pm. And Simi herself came on stage at about 11pm. For a show that’s suppose to start by 6pm.

She did apologized and made up for the delay though but that was for those who had personal logistics to their favor.

For many of those who had a work to resume to by 7am or 8am, they left with a fruitless try to have a refund. Others who had traveled from far mainland and other outskirt areas of Lagos also left on time. They did so sadly. They had spared some token in a trying time just to see their beloved Simi.

As for me I had lots of fun. Only after I was disgusted by the waste of time and the drag that ensued with series of up and coming acts having back to back showings at times past 10pm.

Irrespective of her blame on logistics, we just need to put this out. We can’t be blaming the Government for her inability to fix power, when we can’t event get a show started.

Nigerian shows are always like this. This was the umpteenth time we had a show drag and delay.

Finally Simi appeared on a glowing funny gown

But by 11pm, eventually, like I said. We were good. Simi rocked and so was her band and sound.

She started with a costume that I felt was some funny stuff. The clothe looked like a wedding gown for a ballet dancer.

I was scared when she mounted the stage with that clothing. But then she started apologizing and the costumed made her looked like a little fairy.



You can’t but love Simi. 

I came to this event to enjoy my self not really  as an entertainment reporter but just a fan. It turns out that Simi and I share a lot in common. Her favorite track on the album is Smile For Me. And that was the last song she performed. It was a banger.

The show was a banger. And this was evident in how many quickly forgave her for coming late as they sang every word of the songs she performed.

The crowd didn’t only mime along, they danced as well. All through the show.

And another remarkable moment was when Simi had a duet with Falz at the center of the hall. In front of the Regular ticket holders.

Another magic that happened was seeing Adekunle Gold and Simi sing along like the lovers many gossip theorists have promoted for some time now.

It’s not like it is official yet. But Simi has a way of saying ‘that’s my guy’ whenever she performs with Gold on stage.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment