Share this on WhatsApp
By Alex Olise
 
Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, was in mourning mood at the weekend following the death of a fresh graduate Adeyemi Ajao, as he will not be joining fellow Batch A Corps Members during the passing out parade of the National Youth Service Corps in April 2018.
 
The 27-year-old, who served in the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Umuahia, Abia State, was returned in a body bag to his hometown in Ogbomosho, Oyo State, on Thursday, after he allegedly died from kidney failure.
 
His family members, however, claimed that the graduate of Local Government Studies could not have died from the sickness, saying they suspected foul play.
 
The father, Akanbi, said he was called that his first child was ill on Saturday, adding that he was shocked to learn of his death the following day.
 
He said, “I was called on Saturday around 11am by his friend, Gabriel that he was ill and had been rushed to a hospital.
 
“A doctor at the hospital asked that I send N7, 500 for blood and urine tests, which I did.
 
“After I sent the money, I was being briefed by his friend of the treatment until that evening when he stopped picking my calls.”
 
He said the family pastor in Ogbomosho broke the news of the death to him on Sunday.
 
He said he was surprised when he was told that his son died from kidney failure, adding that since his birth, he had never fallen ill.
 
Akanbi said the NYSC Coordinator, Abia State, Mrs. Francesca Ifon, later called to offer condolences on the death.
 
 
 
 
“Is that how people die from kidney failure? I have handed over whoever had a hand in my son’s death to God,” he added.
 
Our correspondent learnt that Adeyemi would have clocked 28 on March 17.
 
His uncle, Dele Aleshinloye, expressed disappointment at the way the case was handled by the NYSC, saying he had reported the case to the police at the Ogbomosho division.
 
“Should the boy’s father pay for the treatment of the son who was on national service? He sent the money on Saturday and by Sunday, they said he died from kidney failure. How?
 
“Second, they didn’t inform the parents when he died. It was the family pastor they called. Was that the person who sponsored his education?
 
“The NYSC did not do the proper thing after the death. They didn’t mourn the death or show any sign that his death meant anything. They just sent his corpse home. And even before the tragedy was communicated to us, we had started seeing his corpse on Facebook.
 
“I reported to the police and they said they would do a post-mortem test. But that was not done as of the time the corpse was brought to church and buried. I don’t know how they will still to do that.”
 
 National Daily gathered that the victim lived with other corps members in a lodge housing members of the Nigerian Christian Corpers’ Fellowship, Umuahia.
 
He was said to be the group’s utility officer.
 
The General Secretary of the NCCF, Caleb Zamani, said Adeyemi’s health condition was unknown until the situation became critical.
 
He said, “He was ill and we took him to a clinic where it was discovered that his kidney was damaged. We asked those that were close to him if he had revealed it to them at any time, but they said no.
 
“Actually, he had been on and off and it was at a point that we decided to take him for a medical test to identify the problem and we were referred to the Federal Medical Centre, Umuahia where it was discovered to be kidney problem. He died around 9am on Sunday, Feb 11, 2018. ”
 
 
 
 
 
The NYSC state coordinator, Ifon, said the agency paid all the medical bills, adding that it involved the family pastor and some community leaders to ameliorate the effect of the death.
 
She explained that the NYSC was about to carry out an autopsy until a family member said there was no need for it.
 
She said, “A few days before this incident, he had been ill and went to the FMC on his own. They did a test and said he had malaria.
 
“On Saturday, he took ill again and a doctor around the lodge noticed that his temperature was rising fast. He was taken to FMC. That was when the NCCF president informed me.
 
“As soon as I got the message, I went to the hospital. I saw about six doctors around him. They said they did not know the problem with him yet. His temperature was still high and he was on oxygen. They had also passed a pipe because he had not been urinating for a long time. The urine was very dark in colour.
 
“They took samples of the blood, but the labs had closed. So, I took the samples myself to a private diagnostic lab that night. The result came out by10pm and I returned to get it.
 
“Around 11.30pm, a senior consultant said he had kidney problem and needed dialysis. They had the dialysis at 12am and I returned home. The following morning while I was in church, I got a text message that he was dead.”
 
Meanwhile, some friends of the victim paid tributes to him on Facebook, saying he would be missed.
 
One of them, Sharpy Tee, wrote, “You have been our greatest source of inspiration and courage. Deep in our hearts, we will always keep your image. God has now a precious and loving friend, the one we have lost. Here was a man who never rested till he did a good deed every day. His kind and sweet memories will always be with us.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment