Share this on WhatsApp
By Odunewu Segun
Dr. Emmanuel Ighodaro, a consultant in Radiology, Department of Radiology, University of Benin Teaching Hospital and former chairman of the Nigerian Medical Association, Edo State branch has said he’s innocent of the fraud charges leveled against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
Recall that five doctors, including Dr. Ighadoro were arraigned before Justice Efe Igbonmwonba of a Benin High Court last month on alleged stealing the sum of N13.6 million and conspiracy to commit fraudulent false accounting by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).
They were also accused of conspiring among themselves “to make a false entry in the audit report of the accounting year, August 1, 2013-July 31, 2014 of the association to wit, inserting anticipatory income in the report to cover a loan of six million naira yet to be received and thereby committed an offence.”
In an application supported by an affidavit at the High Court registry in Benin city, Dr. Ighodaro, who is also a lecturer at the UNIBEN’s College of Medicine deposed that none of the listed witness stated in the proof of evidence linked him with the stealing of N6m and N3m in count 14, another N2m in count 2 and N1m in count 16 among others.
He said all the accusations were baseless, untrue and was based on mere suspicion without any iota of truths because the NMA, Edo state branch never made any complaint to the police that he stole neither any money nor made a false entry in the audit report of the association for 2013-2014 as being accused.
“All the 17 count information for which I am being charged are on matters which the state executive was audited and approved by the Annual General Meeting held in 2014,” Dr. Ighodaro explained.
Dr. ighodaro was chairman between 2012 and 2014 said the  report of the internal audit committee from 1st of July to 31st of July 2014 which was tendered as exhibit was signed by Dr. O.G Ogbebor, Dr. E.O Odial and Dr. Ehi Isa at the AGM of the state branch on the 31st of July 2014.
Dr. Ighodaro said the AGM adopted the audit report that the subject matter of the information was proper and correct, “particularly page 41 in the proof of evidence’” he stated in the affidavit.
He disclosed that the complainant, Dr. Moses Ujaddughe was not only present at the meeting, but also appended his signature to the resolutions.
Dr. Ighodaro also said most of the prosecution witnesses were present at the AGM and all appended their signatures for the adoption of the audit report.
He also deposed that no EFCC report or police investigation report by any officer was attached to the information to give the court a clear picture of the case or the outcome of any investigation.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment