Share this on WhatsApp
The Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) is set to partner the ICPC, EFCC and others in the fight against corruption in Nigeria.

NDIC Managing Director, Umaru Ibrahim, at the inauguration of the re-constituted Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit (ACTU) of the Corporation, declared that the Corporation is accelerating the fight against corruption in all its ramifications, insisting on zero tolerance for all forms of malpractices,

Mohammed Ibrahim, NDIC Head of Communication and Public Affairs, explained that the unit was inaugurated by Abdullahi Bako, Acting Chairman, Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Offences Commission (ICPC), who was represented by the Head, ACTU, Justin Kuatsea.

Ibrahim said that based on its mandate and supervisory activities, NDIC was at the forefront in the fight against corruption through the enforcement of good corporate governance, transparency and accountability.

This, he said, was necessary to minimise the risk of bank failures, protect depositors and ensure safety and soundness of the financial system.

“The inauguration of the ACTU is a good development as it would further strengthen the corporation’s resolve and its partnership with other government agencies involved in the anti-corruption fight.

“This is aimed at promoting credible and effective service delivery in the public sector.”

Ibrahim said that NDIC had been organising annual capacity building seminars for strategic stakeholders such as the ICPC, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Special Fraud Unit and Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit of the Nigeria Police Force in the area of financial crime investigation.

He expressed the readiness of the organisation to sustain its participation in the capacity building programmes organised by the ICPC Training Academy.

Responding, Bako said ACTU was created by the ICPC in 2001 in all government agencies to curb corrupt practices and to establish transparent processes and procedures in the public sector.

He commended the NDIC for its commitment to transparency and accountability in the discharge of its regulatory responsibilities.

He expressed optimism that the inauguration of the unit would create synergy for effective collaboration between the two agencies.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment