Share this on WhatsApp
President Muhammadu Buhari, at the first Adamawa State Anti-Corruption Summit, on Tuesday, commended the commitment of the State Government to the fight against corruption in the country. The President noted that Adamawa is the only state in Nigeria that set up structure to fight corruption and complement the efforts of the federal government.
Buhari at the Summit remarked: “It is very encouraging that a State Government on its own ventures into the subject matter of fighting corruption deliberately, as well as transparently subjects its methods to the whole nation for detailed discussion.”
President Buhari declared inter alia: “You may recall that on 29th May 2015, when I stated that we are faced with enormous challenges in this Country, with insecurity and institutionalized pervasive corruption being key and that my confidence remained high that together we will tackle them head on.
“As I had predicted, today, I am proud to note that we have not relented in our determination to fight corruption.  We are fixing our problems together.

“Even though under our system, the Federal Government cannot directly interfere in the details of the operations of States, but to see that the gross corruption at the local level is being checked and transparently reported is a thing of satisfaction and joy for me.
 “We will try to ensure that, there is more responsible and accountable governance at all levels of government in the country.”
Buhari noted with satisfaction that the logical steps taken by the Adamawa State Government in the last two and a half years to demonstrate that transparency, fiscal responsibility, accountability and timely delivery of strategic goods and services to develop the state and enhance the confidence of its people is a viable template to fighting corruption.
According to Buhari “team work, the cordial relationship between the Executive and the Legislature, the respect and compliance with fiscal and procurement laws, the institutional reforms to improved efficiency, the drive to achieve value for money, as demonstrated by this administration, are worthy of note.”
Buhari recommended to other states the Adamawa model along with all other winning approaches to enhance the progress and development of Nigeria.
The President further acknowledged: ‘The projects and progress I have seen in Yola along with the reports and presentations made here, have given me encouragement on the future of the State.  I hope this momentum will be sustained.
 “To the Government of Adamawa State, I say “well done and keep it up”.
“To the people of Adamawa State, I congratulate you all on supporting the Government and encourage you to continue to give your maximum support to the State Government in its drive for a much better future.”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment