Share this on WhatsApp
A group under the aegis of the All Progressives Congress National Vanguard has accused the national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu of plotting to destabilize the APC by clandestinely working for the opposition party.

In communique issued after its emergency meeting held in Abuja on Sunday, the group, a coalition of 25 ethnic groups with active membership in the All Progressives Congress (APC) accused Tinubu of championing the division.

The communique was signed by its zonal coordinators – Abdulrazaq Tewogbade (South West); Clarence Temple (South South); Frederick Nwabueze (South East); Stephen Onche (North Central); Mustapha Ngotho (North West); and Mohammed Dambazzau (North East).

They wondered why a key actor in Nigerian politics in the calibre of Tinubu would embark on an ambiguous adventure to destroy the house he built.

According to them, the recent letter by Tinubu to President Muhammadu Buhari in which he laid many accusations against the APC National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun were least expected of a nationalist and elder statesman like him.

The APC-NV said all that could be deduced from his Letter to  President Buhari, was that “Tinubu is acting out a pre-planned agenda to sack Chief Oyegun as APC  National Chairman before the forthcoming national convention of the party scheduled for June 2018.”

“With the successful removal of the party Chairman, President Buhari’s re- election bid may be put to jeopardy.  Reliable sources in Tinubu’s political camp have confirmed to us that there is a plot by a faction of the PDP and Asiwaju to create chaos and discord within the APC”, the APC-NV stated.

Part of the communique reads: “Politics should be played without bitterness, envy and acrimony, recent events in our party, APC have proved the contrary. It is surprising that our great party is being thrown into further crisis by those who should protect our interest and ensure unity because a house divided against itself cannot stand.

“We have it on good authority that some PDP members have scheduled a meeting with Tinubu next week in the United Kingdom. We commend the maturity of Odigie-Oyegun and his response.

“After President Buhari entrusted with the assignment of reconciling members of APC, we would have expected that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu would go about the task with tact and humility.

But to the contrary, the first thing he did was to create more discord within the party by going after constituted authority of the APC.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment