Share this on WhatsApp





A gubernatorial aspirant in the forthcoming governorship election in Ekiti State, Otunba Segun Adewale has called on the incumbent Governor, Ayodele Fayose to declare a state of emergency on the economy of the State with a view to improving citizens living conditions.

Sharing his experience within the last 6 months of his familiarization tour of Ekiti communities with journalists in Ado Ekiti, Adewale Lamented the neglect of the people by the political class.
”What I have seen across our communities are a people subjected to a high degree of poverty while those they entrusted leadership to live in affluence. The political elites in Ekiti have failed the people, political leadership should be about the people and not for selfish aggrandizement. I have seen in Ekiti, citizens from whom the political class derives their powers living in abject poverty and a few political elites living like princes and kings.

” This trend must be reversed, the people must be treated like kings while the political elites reverts to its servanthood position, and this is what I represent in Ekiti State politics”.

Adewale decries the high level of political bickering that as characterized the Ekiti political space, describing it as shameful.

“Political leadership should be about service to the people, but in Ekiti State, the people are never considered, it is always about who gets what among the political elites.
” It is shameful to see that once our political elites are not in the ruling class, all efforts are geared towards ensuring the failure of the State at the detriment of our people. It is time for all to come together and rescue our people from the strong arm of poverty, Ekiti need us now than ever”.

“Governor Ayodele Fayose, should immediately declare a state of emergency on the economy of the State, a lot can still be achieved within his remaining 9 months in office.
The Governor should as a matter of urgency extend a hands of fellowship to all well-meaning sons and daughters of Ekiti not minding their political colorations, our common agenda at this stage should be the development of Ekiti.

Adewale concluded by admonishing the Governor to play politics bearing in mind the welfare of the people of Ekiti.

“Ekiti needs all the help we can get at this time, we need allies not enemies. Our State at this time cannot afford to be on the bad book of elder state men like former President Olusegun Obasanjo or the President, Mohammed Buhari simply because our Governor is playing opposition politics.

Governor Fayose should for the sake of Ekiti development concentrate on issues that are beneficial to the people of Ekiti State and not matters affecting his political career only.






Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment