Share this on WhatsApp



Delta State Government has approached the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), to secure approval for the construction of three modular refineries with total crude refining capacity of 30,000 barrels per day before the end of 2018.
The Commissioner for Oil and Gas, Mofe Pirah, was said to have disclosed this at the Nigerian International Petroleum Summit in Abuja. He complained of the complex process required in obtaining approvals for setting up refineries in Nigeria.
Pirah had declared: “Delta State already has three modular refineries waiting to take off. One in Sapele, one in the Kwale axis, and one in Ukpai. They are 10,000 barrels each. They are yet to come on stream because of the rigours associated with getting approvals from the DPR, as well as getting funding, among others.
“Some of the refineries have got certificates; for others, we have acquired the sites and engineering work is in progress. The construction of the refineries will commence this year.”
The Commissioner also disclosed that the state government was working tirelessly to tackle   the challenges in the Niger Delta. He acknowledged that the engagements with oil-producing communities had restored the country’s crude oil output and increased the revenue base.
Pirah was cited to have highlighted: “In 2016, it was rough and tough in the Niger Delta, particularly in Delta State, but we have been able to calm it down. Since the first quarter of last year till today, I’m sure you would have read minimal news about vandalism and crude oil theft. And you will equally agree that Nigeria’s crude oil production has moved up tremendously.
“You can also see what comes into the Federation Account from oil and gas sales since the first quarter of last year has been going up compared to what happened in 2016. The Delta State Government is going round all the communities to ensure peace.”
The Commissioner also stated that, “…Heritage Oil has started production and the company is the owner of OML 30.”
He noted that when that oil well was abandoned, they were producing 30,000 barrels per day, but Heritage is now producing about 75,000 barrels per day and have a lot of drilling activity coming up from the second quarter of this year.
According to him, “They have chosen to invest in Delta State, in gas and oil. Also, Seplat and Neconde are doing well; a lot of the oil companies are doing well. This is because we have told the communities that if they have any issue, they should come to the government. We have desks set up to resolve matters before they escalate.”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment