Share this on WhatsApp
Three persons were on Wednesday remanded by an Accra Circuit Court for conspiring to rob and robbery. The three were part of a gang of six who were previously remanded by the court but were later discharged for these three to be re-arrested to stand trial. Hope Tagborlo, Ibrahim Mohammed, and Aminu Bawa were said to have conspired and robbed one Cynthia Opare of her Gold Wedding Ring valued at £150.00; Gold Sapphire Ring valued at $150.00; Gold Bracelet valued GH¢3,000.00.
The rest of the items are iPhone 7 plus valued at GH¢6,200.00; Techno phone valued at GH¢300.00; and Bulava wrist watch valued £200, all totaling GHC235,850.00. They all pleaded not guilty to the charges and were remanded by the court to reappear on March 7. Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Mawunyo Nanegbe, prosecuting, told the court that, the complainant, Cynthia Opare is a Legal Practitioner and resident of Lakeside Estate.
Hope, is a driver who resides at Sowutuom, Ibrahim is a trader, and Aminu is a computer technician. One other accused person who is an accomplice is currently at large. The Prosecution said on November 3, 2017 at about 2230 hours, the complainant returned home and was about to park her Mitsubishi Pajero vehicle with registration number GT 2278-16 when the accused persons surfaced.
The prosecution said the three accused and their accomplice who had laid ambush, armed themselves with AK 47 rifles and locally made pistols, attacked her and ordered her to surrender everything in her possession, and robbed her of the car and the items listed above. He said Ibrahim then took control of the vehicle and with the other accused on board, drove off. DSP Nanegbe told the court that on January 3; Ibrahim was traced and arrested at Tamale, with the Mitsubishi Pajero at his house. He named Hope, Aminu and one other as his accomplices. He said further investigations led to the arrest of Hope on January 5. On January 15, an identification parade was conducted and a witness identified Ibrahim as the person who drove off the complainant‘s car on the day of the robbery. On January 22, Aminu was also arrested at his hide out in Agbogloshie.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment