Share this on WhatsApp
Johannesburg – Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) President Amaju Pinnick is slated to open the Football Africa Forum and the launch of the African Football Alliance (AFA) holding on 19-20 February 2018 at the Best Western Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos National Daily gathered.

The Forum will headline speakers like the Founder and President of the African Football Institute (AFI), Mr Gerrit Davids from South Africa as well as speakers from Nigeria football personalities expected to grace the forum includes Barr Seyi Akinwunmi, 1st vice president NFF.  Comrade Fresh Ahmed Yusuf – Chairman Tech Committee NFF,  Alh Shehu Dikko – 2nd vice President NFF and Chairman LMC,  Dahiru Sadi – NANPF  president National Daily learnt.

The Forum will also be addressed by proud sponsor Sigma Pension presenting various investment options available in the market. Representatives from Sigma Pension will also interact with delegates over the the two days of the Forum to advise on sustainable investment strategies for staff and football players.

The main objective of the AFA is to serve its affiliates with organisational development in key areas through the application of sustainable strategies to grow their constituencies as well as creating a home for football structures and interested stakeholders that are not catered for in existing continental structures.

The AFA’s vision is to organise and consolidate the intellectual capital of African football with its mission to promote the development of its affiliates from the basis of good governance and ethics respectively.

Membership to the AFA is open to any association, council, institute, club, league, educational Institution or representative structure who are committed to serve the aims and objectives of AFA.

AFA will initially host chambers for the following sectors i.e. academies, clubs, intermediaries (football agents), leagues, coaches and managers, universities, military and police, media and football writers, medical and science, player unions and legends associations, supporters associations, sports marketing and others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment