Share this on WhatsApp
The spokesperson of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Adamawa State, Sam Zadock, has been killed along with 13 others in a violent clash between between herdsmen and farming communities in the northeast state Tuesday.

The fight broke out between Bachama militia and herdsmen in Numan-Demsa areas.

“It’s unfortunate that we lost our publicity secretary; it’s a great loss to our party,” said PDP secretary Abdullahi Prembe.  

“That’s why we kept calling on the government to take steps in solving the lingering crisis plaguing our societies.’’

According to a Bachama youth leader Euphraimu Turaki, the victims were on a rescue mission when the Fulani herdsmen attacked some villages near Numan.

He said they were not aware the attackers had laid ambush and before you know they opened fire sporadically during which Zadock, and three others were killed instantly.

The herders were said to be carrying out a reprisal on Tuesday as they attacked two communities in Numan and Demsa, razing houses and leaving many residents injured and displaced.

Soldiers fro 101 Special Forces Battalion deployed to the area arrested six of them, while 10 others were shot dead, after “showing resistance.

“Troops deployed in the Numan Local Government Area of Adamawa State swiftly responded to a distress call and supported troops at Gwamba village, which was under attack by herdsmen on Tuesday. Despite the swift reaction to rescue the village from destruction, the notorious herdsmen set the village ablaze before troops could get to the community,’ said the Director, Army Public Relations, Texas Chukwu.

“The troops trailed the herdsmen and arrested six of them at Garigiji village while trying to escape. During the process of the arrest, the herdsmen showed resistance, which made the alerted troops to engage them and kill 10 of them,” he said.

Items recovered from the herdsmen included one AK-47 rifle, 41 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, one locally made rifle with 25 cartridges, one cutlass, looted clothes and one motorcycle.

Adamawa has been witnessing a series of attacks over weeks now.

Government intervention earlier on was deemed a human rights breach—because of the maximum force the military used to quell the violence.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment