Share this on WhatsApp


 set to tackle youths unemployment



A new Doctorate degree holder from the University of California USA,Dr. Stanley Acho has indicated his resolve to create employment opportunities and help reduce unemployment back home in Nigeria.

Acho who just berg his PhD in Business psychology from the said University, has a track record of corporate ingenuity built over the years, a thoroughbred finance consultant, he is the director of Trans America Oil and Gas and also oversees Stretch-out Group (Stretch-out Exclusive Rendezvous Ltd,Stretch-out BDC Ltd, Stretch-out Courier,Stretch-out Investment Ltd.) and the Principal Consultant of Stanley Consulting, an outstanding financial consulting firm.

The finance guru believes he could do something about creation of businesses to engage many of the idle Nigerian youths, as he intends to bring his expertise to bear on some organization to birth this lofty intent of his.

Dr. Acho in a trajectory of his success story thus far relating to what he could bring to the table, noted that he is an inspirational speaker, Humanitarian and a Banker of high repute, an Alumnus of University of Califonia, Federal University of Technology, Owerri, University of Calabar and IMT Enugu, a member of the Institute of Credit Administration (ICA); has over the years built a strong reputation in the banking sector: a fund processing officer with Fidelity Bank, Corporate Marketing Officer with Africa Express Bank, Branch Manager with National Bank and Wema Bank, Equatorial Trust Bank now Sterling bank to mention but a few.

“With the wealth of experience I have gathered abroad I will bring my expertise back home to impact organizations and create businesses to engage the Nigerian Youth and reduce unemployment in our nation”.

He added that he has in his career frame revamped many branches from loss making branches to profit making ones. During Stanley Acho’s time in one of the banks where he relentlessly proved his qualities as an outstanding banker, he developed a product popularly known as Esusu Banking which brought a tremendous increase into the bank’s liquidity.

Stanley Acho didn’t stop there, he went further to provide effective management and leadership for the branch and developed the business as a whole.

He was equally able to identify the customers’ needs and came up with useful recommendations on ways to meet those need he ensured prompt and accurate appraisal of credit application.

When we talk about human and material resources management, Stanley Acho is definitely the best man for the job. He further proved his worth by proactive management of existing relationships while he identified new opportunities with tremendous profitability.

Without mincing word, the experience gathered by Stanley Acho in nine different banks where he has left his indelible mark of honor and integrity shows that he is on top of his game.

To him psychology in business is critical and that is the reason why he furthered his education in that area.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment