Share this on WhatsApp

Don’t roam inside premises on Valentine’s Day: Lucknow University to students

It appears the university doesn’t want students to celebrate romantic love, as is done on V-Day February 14The university described V-Day as something that is part of “western culture”The university seems to prefer if students celebrate February 14 as ‘mahashivratri’.

The reason is the university doesn’t want students to celebrate romantic love – as is done on V-Day February 14 – because it is “western culture”.

The language of an advisory it has issued also suggests the university would much rather students celebrate February 14 as ‘mahashivratri”, a Hindu festival that falls on the day this year.

To ensure there is absolutely no nod to V-Day customs – like exchanging flowers and chocolates – the university has declared February 14 a holiday, citing ‘mahashivratri’ as the reason. And to completely rule out anyone giving anyone else as much as a rose, the university has forbidden students from coming to campus on the day, on pain of disciplinary action.

“In recent years, we have observed that students, influenced by western culture, celebrate Valentine’s Day on February 14. In this connection, students are notified that the university will be closed on February 14, 2018, for ‘mahashivratri’ “, said the Lucknow University advisory, according to ANI, which obtained a copy of the document.

The university’s students by and large called these actions “examples of small-mindedness”, reported ANI.

“You’ve declared a holiday on that day, but telling students to not enter university premises isn’t right at all. If we don’t enter the university, then who will?” asked one student who wasn’t named.

This university has tried to trample on V-day celebrations before. Four years ago, it issued a set of dos and don’ts for its students for V-Day.

The university said that V-Day “is just another working day” and that it expects students to focus on classes instead of other activities. Students were also expected leave campus immediately after class and not “loiter on campus”.

At the time, students said that university officials don’t allow a boy and a girl to even talk to each other on V-Day.

“This is just not done. Boys and girls sitting together is no crime. Action should be taken against students who indulge in mischievous activities (and not this),” said a second-year BA student to TOI four years ago.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment