Share this on WhatsApp
The Christ Embassy will be filling the City of Benin, Edo State, on March 1, 2018, with tonic of the Holy Spirit that flows from the anointing of the President of the Ministry, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome. The spiritual tonic is expected to provide the anointing will stimulate the light of a new path of destiny in youths who are the fulcrum of the proposed conference in the City.
Apparently, the Ministry is taking up a fresh responsibility in rebuilding the minds of the younger generations, empowering them with the knowledge of the deep things of God.   
Accordingly, the organizers of the Conference expressed that holding in the year of the Supernatural, “it is an opportunity for an outpouring of the Miraculous amongst the young people in Southern Nigeria.”
They highlighted that the Conference is a divine platform of the Spirit to reach thousands of youths with the pure, potent word of God, and to cause a transformational change in the lives of all participants, setting them on the path of destiny.
According to them, “Youth Conference Benin will, by the Spirit, start a ripple effect of passion for the gospel that would pass through all of Nigeria and beyond.”
They maintained that, “The Conference has a nation building bent and will empower youths to transform their environments, and to be firm believers in a great future for Nigeria.”
The epochal event will be held in the city of Benin, Edo State, Nigeria, on the 1st of March, 2018.
Major activities of the Conference include a post-Youth Conference Meeting for Leaders of the Campus Ministry will hold 2nd March, 2018, in Benin City.
The organizers highlighted that the STAR (Stirred To Achieve Results) Conference is a Youth education, empowerment, and mentorship program and will feature Key Note Addresses, Special Discourses and other informative, Life Building Content. The Conference will also feature in-depth analysis of Nigeria’s present state and come up with Action Points for her next level.
  The Conference is set to position leaders of the Campus Ministry as Societal Change-makers, for greater impact in their world, the organizers said.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment