Share this on WhatsApp
United Nations agencies in collaboration with other humanitarian partners launched a $1 billion appeal on Thursday to fund life-saving and emergency assistance programmes in the North East, Nigeria, in order to provide respite for victims of the Boko Haram terrorism in the region.

Edward Kallon, the Humanitarian Coordinator for Nigeria decried that, “The humanitarian crisis in Nigeria’s north-east, that has spilled over into the Lake Chad region, is one of the most severe in the world today.” 

He maintained: “This crisis is a protection crisis first and foremost that has also evolved into a food security and nutrition crisis.”

It was estimated that nearly eight million people are in need of some form of humanitarian assistance in the devastated region, with the states of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe the worst affected.

It is indicated that the fully funded 2018 Humanitarian Response Plan will spread to about 6.1 million most vulnerable, providing them with food, protection, water, shelter and sanitation, medicines, as well as with healthcare, education and agricultural support.

The Plan also includes a multi-year strategy aligned with national development and recovery efforts as well as with the UN Sustainable Development Partnership Framework   in Nigeria.

About 60 humanitarian organizations, including UN agencies and non-governmental organizations will be implementing the Humanitarian Response Plan in 2018.

“It is a step towards strengthening the humanitarian, development and peace nexus, in line with the New Way of Working and commitments made at the World Humanitarian Summit in May 2016,” Kallon remarked.

Underscoring the importance of strong coordination and generous funding, the UN official recalled humanitarian efforts in 2017, which delivered life-saving assistance to millions across the region, helped contain a deadly cholera outbreak, and supported children go to school.

Kallon acknowledged that, however, despite the achievements, many challenges remain and conflict continues to force people from their homes. He added that while humanitarian assistance has stopped people from slipping further below emergency thresholds, a lasting political solution is critical.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment