Share this on WhatsApp
The World Bank has revealed providing credit support through the International Development Association (IDA) Credit and an IDA Scale Up Facility Credit to the tune of $486 million equivalent for rehabilitation and upgrading of electricity transmission substations and lines.

It was gathered that the credit facilities constitute part of the Power Sector Recovery Program (PSRP) by the Federal Government, which is a comprehensive package of policy, legal, regulatory, operational and financial interventions that will restore the financial viability of power sector. The measures that will be implemented through 2021 are aimed at improving transparency and service delivery and re-establishing investor confidence in the sector.

The investments under the Nigeria Electricity Transmission Project will increase the power transfer capacity of the transmission network and enable distribution companies supply consumers with additional power. 

It is expected that with other investments and policy measures, the project will contribute to ensuring adequate and reliable electricity supply that is necessary for Nigeria’s continued economic development. It will also support private sector participation, capacity development and better governance in Transmission Company of Nigeria and sector institutions.

Babatunde Fashola, SAN, Minister of Power, Works and Housing, was gathered to have remarked that,  “The Federal Government is committed to addressing the challenges in the public-owned transmission network and the financing being provided by the World Bank under the Nigeria Electricity Transmission Project power sector underlines this commitment. The Federal Government anticipates that private sector financing in the privately-owned segments of the value-chain will complement the government’s efforts in bringing better quality service to citizens.”

Rachid Benmessaoud, the World Bank Country Director for Nigeria, had noted that
 “The Nigeria Electricity Transmission Project will help address key bottlenecks in the transmission network and improve access to affordable and reliable electricity service to citizens.”

The World Bank’s International Development Association (IDA), established in 1960, helps the world’s poorest countries by providing grants and low to zero-interest loans for projects and programs that boost economic growth, reduce poverty, and improve poor people’s lives. IDA is one of the largest sources of assistance for the world’s 75 poorest countries, 39 of which are in Africa. 

Resources from IDA bring positive change to the 1.5 billion people who live in IDA countries. Since 1960, IDA has supported development work in 113 countries. Annual commitments have averaged about $18 billion over the last three years, with about 54 percent going to Africa.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment