Centre: Professor Umar Garba Danbatta, EVC/ CEO NCC; to his right is Usman Malah Chief of Staff to EVC NCC; Spiff Initimi, Head Legislative and Government Relations NCC and others. To immediate left is the New CEO of Spectranet, Ajay Awasthi and Zakir Hussain, General Manager Network Empowerment Spectranet during a recently courtesy visit to NCC headquarters in Abuja.


        Share this on WhatsApp



The new chief executive of Spectranet 4G LTE Limited, Ajay Awasthi, has described Nigeria as not only one of the largest markets in telecommunications services in Africa, but an important market for the company in internet service delivery.
Awasthi, who succeeded former managing director, Mr. David Venn, made the remarks during a recent courtesy visit he led to the headquarters of the regulator, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) at Abuja.
Zakir Hussain, General Manager, Network Empowerment at Spectranet accompanied Awasthi was on the visit to NCC.
Addressing the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof Umar Danbatta in his office, he revealed the plans of Spectranet under his leadership to expand and extend service across Nigeria with the needed innovative strategies to overcome some of the challenges bedeviling Broadband deployment.
He also added that Spectranet will involve speed and pervasiveness to enhance customer experience and exceed customer expectations.
In his welcome speech, Professor Danbatta, averred that the major concern of the Commission is to grow National Broadband Plan (NBP) so as to meet up with the 30% penetration targeted at the end of 2018.
He noted that the implication of the target amongst others is to extend Broadband services to about 50 million of the country’s population.
Danbatta used the visit to reecho his 8-Point Agenda which placed emphasis on facilitating Broadband penetration with high speed transmission, users friendliness and affordability.
While assuring Awasthi of NCC’s collaboration, NCC boss wished made it clear that the Commission will continue to deepen regulatory roles for the growth of the industry.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment