Share this on WhatsApp



A professor of Special Education, Kyauta Ibrahim, has urged youths in the country to make education their utmost priority to accomplish their goals.
Ibrahim, a lecturer in the Department of Special Education, Bayero University, Kano, in Ibadan that the only recipe for a brighter future was education.
The professor, who spoke after he was honoured by the Hausa community in Ibadan, charged Nigerian youths to embrace quality education, saying “it is the only way to reach their desired stardom.
“Without education, you cannot be anything but with it, you can reach whatever heights in the world.
“My advice to the youths is that they should be hard working and go for further education.
Ibrahim, who was born at the Sabo community in Ibadan, said that the Hausa Community in Ibadan could boast of three professors, associate professors, doctorate degree holders and medical doctors.
He said that majority of the people in the Hausa community in Sabo-Ibadan did not attend schools.
“Initially, you hardly find anybody attending school here but recently we have witnessed lots of changes.
“Today, we have many of our northern youths here in the army, police, federal and state civil service.
“I started as a primary school teacher after obtaining my grade two teachers certificate. After teaching for a while, I upgraded myself.
“I enrolled at the Federal College of Education (Special) in Oyo, where I read special education and agricultural science as well as education of people with hearing impairment,” he said.
The varsity don said he later proceeded to Kano State, where he continued as a classroom teacher before he obtained his first degree in special education at the University of Jos in 1990.
“I obtained my masters degree in special education the following year and enrolled for my doctorate degree. I obtained an American scholarship and went to US and UK for further studies,” he said.
Ibrahim described the relationship of the Hausa community in Ibadan with their host community as very cordial and excellent.
The professor said that he could not narrate his entire experiences adding that he succeeded with utmost commitment and determination.
The varsity don called on the youths not to be deterred by unpleasant experiences but be more committed to achieving desired heights through education and self-development.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment