Share this on WhatsApp
The Central Bank has laid the blame of bad Naira notes at the doorstep of commercial banks in the country.

Isaac Okorafor, CBN’s spokesman while providing answers to questions in a tweetchat accused banks of recirculating unfit notes because they do not want to bear the little cost of sorting the notes.

He however noted that the apex bank is considering a permanent solution to the 
proliferation of bad naira notes in the country.

“We have enough lower denomination notes to go round. Banks have merely recirculated unfit notes because they do not want to bear the little cost of sorting the notes and bringing the unfit ones to the CBN for reissue. Very soon we will announce a more permanent, Okorafor said in a tweet.

While noting that lower denomination notes are more frequently in use hence prone to damage, he said lower denomination notes have greater velocity of circulation, meaning they are frequently in use and get abused.

“Several factors account for the existence of worn out notes: The abuse mentioned above and the attitude of banks who fail to return them for reissue is another.”

On what the Central Bank is doing about rising cases of illegal deductions by commercial banks, the spokesman revealed that over ₦55 billion has been refunded to overcharged customers by banks noting that excessive charges outside the Guide to Bank Charges on the CBN’s website should be reported to the bank and if not satisfied should report to the apex bank.
 
Assuring Nigerians that the disparity between the CBN official rate and the parallel market will merge soon. He said the injections by the CBN has prevented the official and black market exchange rates from widening.

He also reveal that the key success factor of growth in 2017 was the prudent use of forex reserves and funding of food production and manufacturing. Expressing confidence on the outlook for 2018 with a better than expected oil-market, further boost in Agric, and growth in the capital market.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment