Share this on WhatsApp
The National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, has continued to become stronger in the battle to dethrone him by the APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.
Earlier, 20 APC Governors gave vote of confidence to the national chairman, expressing satisfaction with his administration of the party since 2015.
The decision of the governors was reinforced by 31 APC State Chairman, who also gave a vote of confidence on the national chairman and the President.
Accordingly, the APC State chairmen, on Monday in Abuja, approved the extension of the tenure of the Oyegun-led National Working Committee (NWC) to years. The decision sealed every plot to dethrone the national chairman and his team, except there is a national convention or similar caucus meeting to reverse the decision.
State chairmen from the South West who include Chief Henry Ajomale, Lagos, Prince Adegboyega Famodun, Osun, The state chairmen of the party, in a communique, said the endorsement came as a result, were in attendance at the Monday meeting.
The 31 APC state chairmen in a communique endorsed two years tenure extension for the NWC and passed a vote of confidence on President Muhammadu Buhari, urging the president to declare for re-election in 2019.
Highlight of the communique by the 31 APC State Chairmen at the meeting in Abuja reads:  “The forum after dissections and thorough appraisal of the APC-led Government, hereby, unanimously pass a vote of confidence on our dear President Muhammadu Buhari, the National Chairman of our great party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, and other leaders of our great party for their numerous achievements despite the challenges so far experienced in our dear country. We also urge Mr. President to present himself for second tenure come 2019.”
“That we support His Excellency Senator Bola Tinubu-led peace and reconciliation committee and urge the committee to expedite action in reconciling members of the party. The forum also calls on all the members of our great party to give maximum support to the committee to achieve sustainable peace in the party.
“In view of the short period between the time available for the proposed party congresses and INEC published time-table for conduct of party primaries and general elections, the forum resolved that the tenure of the present officers of the party at all levels be extended by two years to avert challenges in the party.
“In view of the reasons as adduced above, and the fact that the present constitution as amended in 2014 has not been fully tested in the short life of the party, the forum resolved that the proposed amendment of the party constitution be suspended.
“The forum extends our heartfelt condolences and sympathizes with the good people of Benue, Adamawa, Taraba, Zamfara, Yobe and Bomo States for the attacks on them by the enemies of our dear country.”
The APC National Executive Council meeting followed, thereafter.
 
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment