Share this on WhatsApp




No fewer than 300 unemployed and indigent youth across Alimosho Local Government Area of Lagos State have benefitted from Idera De Foundation Vocational and Empowerment scheme.

The participants received training in soap making, art and craft, painting, makeup, catering and insecticide productions.

Other areas of training included weaving, knitting, tailoring, pomade making (jelly) perfume, candle as well as computer literacy

The age of the participants ranged from 20 and above and were given certificate and start-up cash after their graduation.

Speaking at the grand finale of the training, the Project Directo, Fatai Kehinde Owolabi, an engineer, said Idera De Foundation is a non-governmental and non-profit making organisation which was established with the aim of assisting and empowering the less-privileged citizens to become financially independent and self-reliant.

He said empowering, mobilising and harnessing the power of children, youth and women through vocational skills would enable them to become self-reliant and as well reduce the high level of poverty in the country.

According to Owolabi, the empowerment programme was established five years ago through which scores of youths, both male and female, have been trained to become computer literate. So also women of different ages have also undergone various vocational skills training.

He noted that lack of support and empowerment to the less- privileged is one of the factors responsible for increasing rate of poverty, criminality and other social vices in the society.

Owolabi said: “I was not born with a sliver spoon and growing up for me was not that easy but today, am thanking God for what he had been doing in my life. With this in mind, it is mandatory for me to give back to the society to show appreciation to God.

He also urged the youth to participate in the ongoing voter registration to be able to vote in the 2019 General Elections.Owolabi said that obtaining Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) through voter registration would empower the youth to vote for candidates of their choices.“This is the right time for the youths to vote for reliable candidates who will protect their interest at the state and federal levels. “The first step is to ensure that you all register in the ongoing exercise in order to cast your votes come 2019. “If we want to improve the situation of our roads, power and security in Akoko land, our youths must be actively involved in the electoral process,’’ he said.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment