Share this on WhatsApp
No fewer than 150,000 police officers are fetching and carrying for VIP’s and unauthorised persons in Nigeria—out of the 400,000 strong personnel policing over 180 million Nigerians, according to police authorities..

Although President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015 directed those attached to the VOPs should be redeployed to tackle public security issues, the Police Service Commission (PSC)  says the implementation of the order is impossible.

“We cannot afford to have more than half of the population of the Police in private hands,” PSC’s Charoman Mike Okiro told the Niews Agency of Nigeria.

He said that the commission in conjunction with the Nigeria Police Force, had commenced the implementation of the withdrawal of police officers, but the exercise was stalled due to lack of fund.

“We could not sustain the enforcement of the order on the withdrawal of policemen attached to unqualified persons in the country because of lack of fund.

He expressed disappointment at the practice where persons who served as ministers for over 10 to 15 years still go about with police security.

Okiro said that the nation cannot be battling with shortage of manpower in the force while majority of these officers would be in the service of few privileged Nigerians.

The chairman said that that the number of police officers in the country was inadequate for the population, hence the request for the recruitment of more policemen.

He said that issue of paucity of fund had been one of the problems hindering the recruitment of more policemen for enhanced service delivery.

“The Nigeria police Force is underfunded and not only in the area of manpower.

“The issue of funding is very strategic to the Nigeria Police Force. If you want to police Nigeria as it should be, the entire budget of Nigeria cannot be enough for that,” he said.

The chairman said that the Police Trust Fund bill before the National Assembly if passed into law would go a long way to address the issue of funding for the police.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment