Share this on WhatsApp











 
Over hundred women in Akoko South East Local Government Area of Ondo State have benefited from the maiden edition of the ongoing Women Empowerment Outreach organised by the Office of the Wife of Ondo State Governor, Mrs. Betty Akeredolu, under the umbrella of Forum for wives of Ondo State Officials, FOWOSO.

Some of the items distributed during the empowerment outreach include hybrid Laptop computers, grinding machines, hair drying machines, and sewing machines.

The beneficiaries were trained on various skill acquisition programs, including ICT, Fashion designing, hair dressing, shoe making, Soap and disinfectant production, bead making and make overs artistry.

Speaking at the well-attended event, Wife of Ondo State Governor, Arabinrin Betty Anyanwu – Akeredolu, described the outreach as a medium to demonstrate that women matter in the Akeredolu led administration.

According to Mrs. Akeredolu “The main reason why we are here today is to demonstrate that women matter in Akeredolu’s administration. It is also a demonstration that I am keeping my promise. When I was campaigning, I did say that I will not be far from our 
people, especially the women folk.

“You might have heard my voice on the radio or maybe seen me on television, that may not be good enough, there is nothing like interacting with our people one on one, and through this process we be able to note what the problems are and how we can provide solution, so that government can provide quality life for our people.

“I know one veritable way of doing it is by making sure that people have means of livelihood.

This is very important and critical in all our lives.

Everybody would want a sustainable income to keep body and soul together to make sure that our families do not lack.”

Mrs Akeredolu noted that what was witnessed in the maiden edition of the outreach was just a scratch on the surface and promised more impactful empowerment for the women in the State.

She further described FOWOSO as a grassroot structure through which women and children’s problems would be identified and lasting solutions would be proffered.

In his welcome address Chairman of Akoko South East LGA, Hon. Adeyemi Akinniyi Raymond, expressed gratitude to Ondo State First Lady for the choice of his local government area for the first edition of the outreach and commended Mrs. Akeredolu for initiating FOWOSO which according to him is a blessing to Ondo State Women.

The epoch making event featured, free medical services, Cultural heritage display and raffle draw for the crowd funding to support Ondo women living with breast cancer.











Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment