Share this on WhatsApp


The Lagos State House Assembly member representing Ifako- Ijaiye Constituency II, Hon. Rasheed Makinde has expressed his deep sense of appreciation over the kind gesture of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for the facilitation of the construction of an additional road in Ward B in Ojokoro.

Makinde noted that the magnanimous disposition of the Governor was made possible by a visit he was opportune to make with the Speaker of the Lagos Assembly to him sometimes last year, where he was asked to come forward with two names of roads to be constructed in addition to the ongoing ones within his constituency.

He disclosed this over the weekend while holding parley with community leaders in Gbirinmi and Adesola Community Development Association of the benefiting ward, officially announcing the arrival of contractor to Onifade Crescent in Ward B, urging all residents to cooperate with the engineers to enable them have a smooth operation in the community, thus increasing the number of roads to be constructed within his constituency alone to about fifteen.

While narrating the genesis of Onifade Crescent road construction that is about to commence, the lawmaker said, “it is on the personal approach and rapport I had with the governor  through the courtesy call of the speaker Lagos state house of assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa, I was privileged  to be part of, there and then the governor ask me to present two roads within my constituency.

“So, Onifade Crescent in Ward B and Community road in Olera CDA, Meiran Housing Estate, Ward E, were the roads the I presented to his Excellency for construction and the Contractor have move to site since Friday 9th of February at Onifade Crescent in Adesola/Gbirinmi CDA Ward B.

The community association led by Alh. Salami expressed gratitude to Honourable Makinde for being the first lawmaker to facilitate even development to their community while saying when the construction of Onifade street is completed it will ease movement of people and motorists around the community.

Meanwhile Mr. Segun Ojediran CDA Secretary, Gbirinmi CDA uses the forum to declared his intention to dump the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, to join the All Progressives Congress, APC.

Hon. Makinde welcome Mr. Ojediran to the Progressive family as he urged community leaders to form a few member project monitoring committee to give necessary supports to contractors and to help them secure their equipments, materials and to curb any harassment of workers on site.

He (Makinde) also implore the monitoring committee to speak with to the men on site to assist with rubbles to fill Gbirinmi street and Orona street.

Recently governor Ambode approves ten roads construction simultaneously in Ojokoro LCDA, which was hammered during the last stakeholders meeting hosted by the lawmaker in October.

On seat to welcome the lawmaker is the leader, Ojokoro legislative arm, Hon. Abdulazeez Osho, Former deputy leader, Hon. Falegan,  Baale Gbirinmi, APC Chieftain Mrs. Omitogun, Iya Lo’ja Gbirinmi Chief Mrs. Dada, APC ward Chairman Pa. Arowolo among others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment