Share this on WhatsApp




By Lanre Adesanya 




The Lagos People Democratic Party (PDP) Chairman Hon.Moshood  Adegoke Salvador has cited indiscipline as the main cause of the party’s woes and dwindling political fortune, while inaugurating the State caucus and Elders committee.

Salvador charge members present to eschew bickering that bedevilled the party in time past and unite to guarantee a victorious future for PDP.

According to him,we are nothing without each other,everyone is important according to his/her unique purposes,never look down on others, always admire your fellow PDP members.

”  Unity and forgiveness is one of the most important requirements that PDP needs to ascertain victory in the coming election. It is absolutely impossible to expect victory while you keep spoiling your party for no reason.

“Let us be loyal to PDP and not individual,let’s love PDP and win together in Lagos State. Don’t allow results of Congresses to disturb or affection our victory because governance is more important than party offices. Let’s be more careful,not to destroy our party Now because we will need it tomorrow as vehicle to governance”.

Salvador gave a hint of the level of impartiality that played out from his end all through the Congresses held to churn out officers of the party in Lagos, adding that he has vowed not to tamper with the list forwarded to him from the National as proceeds of the duly conducted Congresses.

He charge all that may later sense any untoward development, to officially communicate their views to the appropriate authority for prompt action.

“Our target is to register 1million new members in Lagos, our preparation should start from the wards, enough persistent failure at polls, refuse any external influence from destroying your party, join hands with the exco to run the party reject any agent of destruction.

Salvador inaugurated the Lagos Central Working Committee of the party in Lagos, namely; Chief Olabode George, Charles Akintoye, Hon.Moshood Salvador, Captain Tunji Shelle, Setonji Kosehdoh,Bayo Williams,Muritala Ashorobi, Rasheed Alaba Williams, Hon.Tunji Soyinka representing Surulere Federal Constituency at the Federal House of Reps, Hon.Tony Nwulu Oshodi Isolo Federal constituency,Hon.Shadimu,Hon.Tajudeen Obasa Ojo Federal Constituency, Hon.Oghene Amuwo Odofin Federal Constituency,Hon.Rita Orji Ajeromi Ifelodun Federal constituency, Hon. Dipo Olorunrinu Lagos State House of Assembly member representing Amuwo Odofin constituency .

Others are Former Ministers, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, Chief Dapo Sarumi, Abimbola Ogunkelu, Gen.Tajudeen Olanrewaju,Deji Wellington, Tokunbo Pearse, Alhaji Rafiu Tinubu’s, Princess Adegbite Olagbegi, Chief Mrs. Margaret Igwe, Tokunbo Jameson, Aderibigbe Smith.
 The BoT are Chief Mrs. Aduke Maina,Chief Olabode George and one other former Adviser to the President on Housing.

He urge all party officials at every level and strata to replicate this at the senatorial and local governments in line with constitutional provisions.

Some of the chieftains of the PDP present at the forum, also charge all members to stop washing their dirty linen in public to preserve the party’s .

Mr. Jimi Agbaje noted that, “it is important for everybody to know where you stand that informs my presence here, If PDP has any chance to win, stand as one and say bye bye to impunity, what we have today everybody feels more involved unlike before when it was of one stalk, we must go back and ensure the implementation of the 65/35 percent arrangement at every level.

Former governorship candidate Adeshamsideen Dosunmu in his own contribution call for all to give Moshood Salvador the required unflinching support.

Chief Mrs Aduke Maina in her own contribution harps on the need for adequate regards and respect to be accorded the State Chairman of the party wherever he stands for the party, stressing  that he is the pointsman of the party and deserves maximum respect.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment