Share this on WhatsApp
Some shareholders under the aegis of Pragmatic Shareholders Association of Nigeria, PSAN, have decried the recent Central Bank of Nigeria rule that barred banks with huge bad loans from paying dividends and have called on the called National Assembly to intervene with the aim of protecting local investors.

National Daily gathered that the shareholders are threatening to take legal actions against the apex bank if it does not rescind its decision.

According to its Coordinator, Bisi Bakare, the timing of the CBN policy directives to deposit money banks, and discount houses just two weeks to the release of the 2017 banks financial results will complicate the expectations of domestic investors/shareholders lamenting that the policy directive by the CBN will block domestic investor’s paltry return on their investments.

They further accused the CBN board and management of the high-level complicity and sabotage in the reoccurring banks’ loans and its attendant negative impact on domestic savings through portfolio investments.

They, therefore, asked the CBN as a matter of duty to Nigerians and the international community to publish the profile of the loans defaulters and invoke the operating laws 
through the banks on all bad loans.

In a statement, the group said the contentious banks’ bad loans are failure pointers and collapsing state of the national financial regulatory institutions in the proactive management of the economy.

Meanwhile, an industry expert, Mr. Ola Yussuf, MD, Trust Yield Securities said the new circular is meant to protect the banks and their shareholders to make sure that the banks are strong and their liquidity is not threatened by the decision to pay out dividends. Stressing that the market as a whole should not view the policy as a negative development.

Yusuf explained that even if a company does not pay dividend, as long as that company is making reasonable profit and reinvesting that profit back to the company, it strengthens the financial state of the company and that should be reflected in the share price, hence, a shareholder is not losing because if the price of the share goes up as a result of non-payment of dividend, then you can always sell a portion of your share to compensate for whatever dividend you would have received if the company had paid dividend.

Recall that the apex bank last week issued a circular restricting banks that do not meet the minimum capital adequacy ratio from paying dividends.

Also banks or discount houses that have a high composite risk rating of high or Non-Performing Loan (NPL) ratio of above 10% were also restricted from paying dividends.

“Deposit Money Banks and Discount Houses that meet the minimum capital adequacy ratio but have a CRR of “Above Average” or an NPL ratio of more than 5% but less than 10% shall have dividend payout ratio of not more than 30%,” the circular had started.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment