Share this on WhatsApp


















The Director of Communication and Strategy of the Buhari Presidential campaign Organization, Festus Keyamo SAN on Wednesday refuted report that the Director General of the Buhari Presidential Campaign Organization disparaged the national Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) , Adams Oshiomhole. He maintained that the Buhari Campaign DG never scolded Oshiomhole for any reason.
Keyamo in a statement on Wednesday, declared: “Our attention has been drawn to a news item purporting that the Director-General of President Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Organisation, Rt. Honourable Rotimi Amaechi, disparaged the Chairman of our great party, the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to the effect that he is “bad luck” to the Party.
“This news item is a classic case of the much-touted “fake news” that has become a tool in the hands of desperate politicians.”
Kyamo argued that the report is also an unsuccessful attempt to create a division between both great leaders of the Party.
“For the avoidance of doubt, we wish to state without equivocation that  Rotimi Amaechi did not at any forum, whether in private or public, utter such words or anything close to those words in reference to Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. He holds Comrade Adams Oshiomhole in the highest esteem possible,” Keyamo stated.
The Communication Director noted that they have since discovered that the “fake news” was concocted, released and circulated by the sinking main opposition party. “Indeed, the combination of Rotimi Amaechi and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is an obvious nightmare to them,” he said.
Keyamo further narrated that from their intelligence sources, they wished to alert the general public that as the campaigns draw closer, many of such “fake news” would be released and circulated by the opposition that is presently clutching at straws and harvesting chaff to survive. “For them blackmail, outright lies, falsehood and now “fake news” have become their campaign strategy,” he stated.
Keyamo assured that they shall continue to alert the general public anytime such “fake news” is released and urge them to continue to ignore such stories. “However, on our part, we are set to run an issue-based campaign,” he promised.















Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment