Share this on WhatsApp


















The national chairman of the All Progressives congress (APC) whose selection at the national convention is still an issue of controversy, Adams Oshiomhole, seems to be losing hope in the resolution of the crises ravaging the ruling party, and the reconciliation of the exit of a faction from the party.
The APC national chairman running out of conflicts resolution ideas was of the view that mainstream APC leaders will rather ignore members of the Reformed-APC than be bothered by their action.
Hosting Chairmen of the defunct Congress for Progressives Congress (CPC) on solidarity visit to APC national secretariat, Abuja, expressed that the R-APC can be crushed through superior argument, anchoring his proposition on the fight against corruption and the regrouping for corruption to fight back.
Oshiomhole had declared: “We listened to Buba Galadima. It is as if a very hungry bird is dancing at the centre of the road and a disgruntled drummer not far away in the bush is drumming for him.
“There are a lot of idle people who don’t have any other thing to do and once they don’t have access to national honey pot, they begin to complain.
“For me, there is no cause for alarm; nobody should panic over one Buba Galadima whose group, I believe, cannot define us in the next election in 2019.
“Nigerians are wiser. They know that corruption is fighting back and that President Muhammadu Buhari’s resolve to fight corruption must elicit a counter force and that force must find attraction in some people.
“I believe the rebellion will be crushed using the superior power of argument and persuading our people not to forget in a hurry where we are coming from.”
Many stakeholders have articulated that the axiom of corruption fighting back has become an anachronism in Nigeria, more so, when many Nigerians have come to the conviction that Buhari is not fighting corruption but intimidating opponents while APC members are shielded of corruption by the president.  There is still a petition of corruption hanging on the neck of Oshiomhole which the president and APC leaders ignored to make him party chairman. Invariably, APC and President Buhari are fighting corruption with corruption.
Alhaji Umar Shuaibu, leading the delegation of the CPC legacy party chairmen had disclosed that they were at the APC Secretariat to pledge their support to the Oshiomhole leadership and the National Working Committee (NWC).















Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment