Share this on WhatsApp



A former Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Maharazu Tsiga, was at the helm of affairs at the time the controversial NYSC exemption certificate was claimed to be issued to Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, Minister of Finance, had declared that the controversial exemption certificate to Adeosun  could not have been issued by the Corps.
National Daily gathered that the former NYSC DG asserted that there was no way he would have approved the issuance of such certificate, nor would Bomoi, his predecessor, return to issue it.
Maharazu Tsiga was Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) between 2009 and 2011.
Yusuf Bomoi ended his term as NYSC DG on February 13, 2009. Adeosun’s exemption certificate was claimed to be signed in September 2009 by Yusuf Bomoi; this raised suspicion of forgery
Accordingly, Tsiga had maintained: “There is no way that somebody would come and sign after hand over.
“In as much as you have not served, no matter how old you grow, in as much as you were not mobilised to serve at the time you were supposed to serve, they can never give you exemption. You must go for service.”
The former NYSC boss remarked that fake NYSC certificate, even fake NYSC camps exist.  He, however, provided a clue that Corps can identify the originality of the certificate from its “strong room”.
“We have what is called strong room. I believe from there they can easily identify if a certificate is issued by the NYSC or not,” he said.
There were insinuations that top NYSC officials plotted to shield Adeosun over the certificate scandal. After NYSC admitted that the Finance Minister applied for exemption certificate and promised to investigate the fake certificate, sources revealed that NYSC top officials plotted to accept the issuance of the exemption certificate to Adeosun, then, blame Bomoi for it, who died on September 18, 2017.
The certificate was claimed to have been issued after Bomoi had left the Corps and wouldn’t have post-dated the issuance of the certificate on his exit.
Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has taken no action of the forgery scandal while the Finance Minister was gathered to be running from pillar to pole for cover-up.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment