Share this on WhatsApp



Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has responded to the defeat of the PDP in the Saturday election, saying it was a deserved victory for the APC canddate Kayode Fayemi.
“Indeed, your success at the polls after a hard fought campaign is proof that the people of Ekiti State value your leadership and appreciate the efforts you have made thus far on their behalf,” Obasanjo said in the letter dated July 15 fired off from his trip in China.
“I salute you and all those who worked for your re-election.”
He described Fayemi’s victory as a huge feat, careful not to mention the ruling party whose strongman, Gov. Ayo Fayose, is a critic of the former president.
“You will agree with me, no doubt, that the outcome of the election broadly reflects the choice of your people, who have, by their conduct, visibly demonstrated that they cherish you and will do their utmost to make you succeed.
“I urge you, therefore, to reciprocate their trust by doing everything you can to strengthen their faith in democracy and in its ability to bring about improved material conditions and better service delivery to them.
“You have fought and won the election and deserve to savour the victory. As you rejoice, however, I would urge that you should be magnanimous in victory and stretch a hand of fellowship to the other candidates who failed in their bid for elected office.
“Such a gesture is not only charitable but should also help at this time to cool passions in the wider interest of Ekiti State in particular and Nigeria at large.
“I felicitate with you, once again, on your renewed mandate and, as you prepare for another four years at the helm of affairs of Ekiti State, I extend best wishes for your good health and the continued progress of Ekiti State under your able leadership.”
Obasanjo has always described the APC and PDP as leprous. He however seems to have a soft spot for Fayemi–instead of his former godson Fayose who is now estranged after a superiority war between the two in 2006 in the PDP.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment