Share this on WhatsApp



President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday led leaders of the All Progressives Congress to Ado Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, in support of the party’s candidate Kayode Fayemi contesting the Saturday’s governorship election.
While addressing a crowd of APC supporters, Buhari said Ekiti people should be wary of the blackmail against his person regarding the herdsmen and farmers clash.
“They are blackmailing me, saying I have not done anything about the farmers/Fulani herdsmen clashes because I am a Fulani man,” the president said.
“But this is a cheap blackmail. We are doing everything to curtail the situation, and provide a lasting solution to the problem.”
Buhari might be referring to the campaign theme of the PDP referring to the APC’s federal government as irresponsive.
Ayo Fayose, the Ekiti State Governor, has been accusing the president of allowing the herdsmen killings to continue, citing Buhari’s ethnic origin as a major factor.
Buhari also warned the crowd in Ekiti to vote on Saturday and look beyond “stomach infrastructure”– Fayose’s policy of consumption over infrastructure.
“Do not allow your future to be insulted by stomach infrastructure,” Mr Buhari said. “Vote on Saturday, looking beyond stomach infrastructure.
“Don’t waste your votes, vote for Dr Fayemi. I know Ekiti people cannot be brainwashed or deceived.”
The president also said Ekiti State had received a fair share of projects from the federal government, including 13 roads worth N760.7 million, as well as housing projects.
“I am not here to only campaign, but also to urge the people of Ekiti State to embrace change,” he said.
The APC rally was attended by the party’s national leader Bola Tinubu, pioneer chairman of the party, Bisi Akande, incumbent chairman Adams Oshiomhole, governors of Kebbi, Ogun, Kogi, Osun, Oyo, Ondo, Edo, and Nasarawa.
There were others like the Secretary to the Government of the Federation and federal ministers.
Tinubu said there was hardship in the country because the previous government looted the treasury.
“The party stole all the money in the treasury. They ate the breakfast of the children,” he said.
“Prices are up, yes, we agree, but who stole all the money. The PDP is a party of destruction. When they ate the tail and brain of the yam, where are they going to get the yam for lunch?”
He urged the people to come out en masse and vote for Kayode Fayemi, noting that they should not be afraid of any intimidation.
Speaking too, Oshiomhole assured workers of the payment of their salary arrears if Mr Fayemi emerges as the next governor of the state.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment