Share this on WhatsApp

Faces six months suspension, prosecution




There seems to be no more hiding place Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, APC lawmaker representing Delta Central in the National Assembly, on the April 18, 2018, invasion of the Senate plenary and stealing of the Mace by thugs observed to be led into the Chambers by the senators who was then on suspension.
The Jjoint ad hoc Committee of the national Assembly, concluding investigations, indicted Omo-Agege over the Mace theft and, accordingly, recommended his suspension from the senate for 6 months (about 180 days) founding the senator guilty of masterminding the theft of the mace at the Senate chamber.
The committee, during investigations, invited security operatives in the National Assembly, including Senator Ali Ndume, for interrogation.
National Daily learnt that the Joint Investigative Committee further recommended the prosecution of Senator Omo-Agege with six other suspects who allegedly accompanied him into the chamber on the day of the incidence.
They are to be prosecuted for treasonable felony, assault on National Assembly members of staff, conspiracy to steal and eventual theft of the Senate Mace, the committee ruled.
The committee also recommended a total review of the National Assembly’s security architecture.
The House of Representatives, at plenary on Tuesday, ratified the recommendations of the ad hoc committee and wants them implemented immediately.
The committee’s 10-point recommendation was adopted after Hon. Betty Apiafi, Rivers-PDP, and Chairman of the Ad hoc Committee, laid the report at the Tuesday’s plenary session.
Senator Omo-Agege had played the devil’s advocate against the National Assembly in attempt to be in the good book of President Muhammadu Buhari after the amendment of the Electoral Act by the two chambers of the National Assembly, a process he actively participated to its conclusion. The APC senator had gone to the public to declare that the amendment was targeted at the president towards the 2019 general elections. That led to his suspension for 90 days which was later upturned by the court after he had invaded the Senate with thugs.
\The Senate Committee on Ethics and Privileges had recommended his suspension for 181 legislative days but President of the Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, intervened and pleaded for reduction to 90 legislative days.
Omo-Agege has since the controversy been enjoying patronage from the President and the APC leadership, being assigned roles in certain committees of the ruling party. The lawmakers have found their rhythm after the last Friday Supreme court judgment on the CCT prosecution of Saraki on false assets declaration allegations which ridiculed the executive.
Omo-Agege may be resuming legislative duties around February 2018 in the remaining period of the 8th National Assembly, depending on when the suspension enforcement commences.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment