Share this on WhatsApp



By Esther Egbe
The Board of Fosla Academy has approved the commencement of a one-month Holiday Coaching Summer School programme for the general public this long vacation,National Daily gathered.
The Summer Programme is open to the general public but limited to children within secondary school age.
The one-month Summer programmes will commence on Sunday, July 29, 2018 and last till August 31, 2018.
Fosla Academy is the first independent premier football academy in Nigeria that combines education attainment and football development with satisfactory results.
In football, Fosla Academy is the current defending champions of FCT Principal Cup. They have won the cup for three consecutive times.
Fosla Academy came second at the Shell Cup in 2016 where the players won individual awards such as the best defender, Highest goal scorer, Most Valuable Player and Best Goal keeper. Three Fosla Academy players represented Nigeria in the Copa Coca Cola 5 Aside international tournament in South Africa last year
.
Currently, two Fosla Academy players are integral members of  the National Under 15 team (Future Eagles) currently taking part in the African Youth Games in Algiers,
The academy performed excellently well in the just released WASSCE results with the 17 candidates that sat for the exam all making five credits including English and Mathematics.
As a matter of fact, 3 students scored A1 in the Mathematics.
The students also did very well in their 2018 JAMB results with the least result being 170 (which is above cut-off mark) and the highest result being 278.
Currently, 15 graduates among the first set of Fosla Academy are currently on scholarship in Nasarawa State University studying various academic courses.
In the words is the proprietor, Alhaji Sani Lulu, the Omachi of Igala, “Any player without education is a liability to the society no matter the level of professional football he or she attains.”
Built on the foundation of honest, the school recently withdrew one of her players from the national Under 17 team because he would be 17 years of age by December which violates FIFA’s rule. Same thing they did in the last edition.
Recently, in Kogi state, the management of the school offered automatic scholarship to a student who was brave enough to own up that he was above 13 years when the school went for its annual scholarship to scouting programs.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment