Share this on WhatsApp



The Chairman of the Reformed All Progressives Congress, Buba Galadima, says President Muhammadu Buhari should be blamed for the gale of defections that hit the ruling All progressives Congress (APC) in recent times.

Galadima disclosed this in a recent interview monitored by National Daily.

The R-APC chairman said his disagreement with the President was based on principles and not selfish interest.


Galadima said he would not blame those around the President but only Buhari. He said he would not blame the Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, or Buhari’s nephew, Mamman Daura, because the buck stops on the President’s table.

He added, “I don’t believe in any inner circle. The buck stops on Buhari’s table. If Buhari says he doesn’t want to see Mamman Daura or Abba Kyari or any other person, they will not spend two seconds in the Villa.

“So, if there is any inadequacy or shortcoming, it should be that of the President, not an aide. After all, they can only advise. They can’t force his hand. For example, the Nigerian ambassador was in Israel and was said to have attended the official opening of the US embassy in Jerusalem.

“And there was this huge outcry by all Nigerians because this is counter to Nigeria’s policy on Israel. Buhari said he would investigate. Now it has been three months. Where is the result of the investigation?”

He also said he blocked the Serving Overseer of the Latter Rain Assembly, Pastor Tunde Bakare, from becoming the running mate of Buhari during the build-up to the 2015 Presidential election.


Galadima said, “Buhari was the one who was against the alliance with Tinubu and I don’t want to say anything. Let Buhari deny what I have said. I was for it and I organised it and I wrote a memo and even produced a candidate for the Vice-Presidency, this same Osinbajo.

He said it was Buhari, who gave out his (Galadima’s) daughter in marriage, adding that his grandson was named after the President.

Galadima added, “There are no differences between Buhari and me. My daughter visits him in the Villa. He gave out my daughter in marriage. Her first child was named after him. What we are doing is on the basis of principles.”



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment