Share this on WhatsApp



President Muhammadu Buhari receiving the Buhari Support Group Centre (BSGC) at the State House, Abuja, on Friday, explained that  he declared early to contest the 2019 Presidential Election for re-election for second term to douse rising speculations and allow  the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), have sufficient time for preparation for the election.
National Daily gathered that President Buhari remarked that he observed that speculations over his second term ambition were already constituting distraction to governance and stirring tensions, so he had to declare during the APC National Executive Committee meeting in Abuja to enable party members know the direction to go.
“I had to announce before the National Executive Committee of our party about my intention to ask for the party’s nomination for next year’s election so that we can save a lot of time and cool tempers.
“A lot people were trying to make it a habit of being a nuisance to themselves and many Nigerians, so when I came out I said those who are serious let them come out.
“And I tried to make sure that the party is organized and consolidated so that we start from the bottom to the top, and that Nigerians will be involved in a way that each constituency will pick those that are going to represent them at various levels, whether as Local Government chairmen, in the State Assembly, House of Representatives, Senate and finally the president,” the President had narrated.
He was of the view that the early declaration guaranteed more participation and inclusivity within the party and further strengthened the bond with supporters and Nigerians.
Buhari was said to have noted that people think that being uneducated and unsophisticated have relevance in elections, saying that people could collect money from politicians and still go ahead to vote their conscience.
“Some of the people thought to be uneducated and unsophisticated are at disadvantage with the very educated and sophisticated during elections; for those who have money to give they say bring the money we will still do what we want to do,” Buhari declared.
The President further stated that God’s divine intervention and the use of technology during the 2015 elections exposed the weakness of previous processes where a privileged few sat and allocated figures to constituencies during elections.
“They just sit and look at a constituency and they award the numbers, then, they say anybody who disagrees should go to court. Now, for somebody who is looking for the next meal, where does he get money to pay Senior Advocates of Nigeria?
“Thank God for technology, with the PVC, you know where you registered and it can be shown whether you voted or not, he stated.
President Buhari told Nigerians to get their voters card for the 2019 elections, and ensure that they vote to please their conscience with pride as citizens.
The President thanked the Buhari Support Group Committee for all the sacrifice and steadfastness in mobilizing people for his presidential ambition. .
“I thank you very much for the sacrifice you have been making. I am happy to use this opportunity to meet you and thank you for the sacrifices and steadfastness. I don’t think I can thank you enough because by identifying yourself as a group for all these years and getting nothing for it visibly, I think its worthy of commendation,’’ Buhari said.
Umaru Dembo, Coordinator of the BSGC, had remarked:  “through thick and thin, rain or sun shine, hot or cold we are here to assure Mr. President that since 2014 we have been working, expanding and helping to explain the new life that your government has ushered in for the good people of Nigeria.”
He disclosed that the BSGC had initiated the documentation of the President’s achievements in a book authored by Dr. Sani Muktar Bichi and himself.
Dembo notified President Buhari the Group adopted a bottom-up process in mobilising more supporters for the administration, while appreciating him for reversing the trend of impunity, corruption and lawlessness that reigned before 2015.
The BSGC Coordinator narrated that the BSGC network includes “Women for Buhari and Osinbajo”; “A Kasaa Tsare”; “Northern Youth Assembly”; “Buhari Renewal mandate” and others in support of good governance in Nigeria.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment