Share this on WhatsApp
Barely over 24 hours after the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) fused with over 30 political parties ahead of 2019, at least 20 have reportedly stepped back from the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) reached.

National Daily gathered that some of the parties on the list were fraudulently included among those that signed MoU, and have therefore decided to pull out of the coalition.

Reacting to the MoU, Chairman of Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM), Alhaji Bashir Yusuf Ibrahim, told National Daily that the parties which joined the coalition are driven by selfishness and hunger to capture power in 2019.




According to him, most of the parties in the PDP list were fraudulently included to sign the MoU to deceive Nigerians. He revealed that he, the Accord Party (AP) chairman and others abstained from the PDP meeting, but that their party names were found on the list without their consent.
“Part of the 42 political parties they listed is Accord Party and the chairman of the party is here with us. If you are creating a coalition, you need to be honest about it as to who and who are members of the coalition.
“As of today, the membership of that coalition is in doubt. Two members also listed at that coalition are here. We are not part of that coalition because we represent a type of politics, which is in total contradiction of what they are doing.
“We do not believe that our country should be governed by people whose only objective is to capture power. Of what purpose is that coalition built? Is it for the purpose of taking Nigeria back to 1999 and 2015 or is it for the purpose of building a new Nigeria?

National Daily gathered that political parties that have abstained from the PDP coalition to include Accord Party, Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM), United Progressive Party (UPP), Advanced People’s Democratic Alliance (APDA), Hope Democratic Party (HDP), Democratic Peoples Party (DPP) and Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN).

Others are Freedom Justice Party (FJP), Fresh Party, (FP) New Nigeria’s Peoples Party (NNPP), Nigeria’s Peoples Congress (NPC), Nigeria Peoples Movement (NPM), Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), National Action Congress (NAC), and NDLP.
Meanwhile, Festus Keyamo, the spokesperson of the Buhari campaign organisation, said the over 30 political groups which signed a pact with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have ended up losing their rights and identities.

Keyamo described the coalition as pure deceit and laughable desperation.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment