Share this on WhatsApp



The Federal High Court in Jos has adjourned till Tuesday, July 10 after it heard arguments from both counsels of NFF president Chris Giwa and Amaju Pinnick recently, National Daily gathered.
Contrary to Pinnick’s lawyer, Festus Keyamo’s claim that football matters do not go to regular courts ,they approached Justice M.H Kuryasitting at the Federal High Court Jos demanding he side aside the June 5th order to enforce the Supreme Court Judgment of April 27,2018 affirming Amb. Chris Giwa as the NFF President pending the determination of the substantive suit.
Justice Kurya had on June 5thordered that the election of the NFF held on August 26, 2014 under the leadership of Amb Chris Giwa be given recognition pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice filed in the case and that the purported ban of the Executive Committee elected on August 26, 2014 from football activities of the NFF was unconstitutional, null and void.
The order compels the defendants, including the Minister of Youth and Sports, their servants, agents and privies, howsoever, the Inspector General of Police and all law enforcement agencies to forthwith enforce the orders made by the court on 19th September 2014 and 23rd October 2014 and give recognition to the General Assembly Meeting and election of the NFF held on 26th August 2014 under the leadership of Amb Chris Giwa pending the hearing and determination of the Motion on Notice filed  in the case.
It was against this background that Sports Minister, Solomon Dalung directed the parties involved to comply with the court order, which led to Amb. Chris Giwa and his board assuming duties on Monday, July 2 as the President of  NFF.
Meanwhile, the NFF has relieved Festus Keyamo his duties as NFF lawyer.
National Daily learnt  that the federation wrote him on Tuesday, July 3 that his services had been terminated forthwith.
This latest twist will be fresh headache for Keyamo and his client, while Giwa’s lawyer could feast on this development at the resumed hearing of the case on recently .
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment