Share this on WhatsApp



Chief Ayo Adebanjo, chieftain of pan-Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, says President Buhari would be deceiving himself to think he would win a return ticket in 2019 following his abysmal performances in the last three years.
Adebanjo who was reacting to a statement credited to the presidency that leaders of the Afenifere, Northern Elders Forum, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Jama’atul Nasir Islam (JNI), Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the North East Forum for |Unity and Development (BEFUND) were engaging in what it termed as “shedding of crocodile tears,”said President Buhari is a joker.
The groups had met in Abuja last Wednesday, and had declared the Buhari’s administration incompetent on account of not addressing the security and other challenges in the country.
“What has he done to warrant coming back? On security, he has failed, economy is bad, no electricity and what can he claim to have done or he thinks he is ruling morons,’’ Adebanjo queried.
Chief Adebanjo said it was difficult to believe the claim by government that efforts were being made to restore sanity while innocent people were being killed by herdsmen who go about carrying AK47 and nobody had been brought to book in spite of promises to do just that.
The elder statesman said what had always been demanded from Buhari’s government was to brace up which it had consistently promised but failed to do, declaring that its best had been the worst and to that extent, clueless.
“We are calling on them that they should brace up and each time they kill, the presidency would say we are bracing up, you are doing your best, and your best is the worst. Your best does not make anything. That is what we are saying, so it means they are clueless,” Adebanjo said.
Speaking on efforts to ensure that President Buhariwas stopped from returning to Aso Villa, come 2019, the Afenifere leader said the plan was to make sure that a joint candidate was fielded against him in the election.
He said opposition parties across the country were being encouraged to team up ahead the elections, promising that the leaders would do their best to stop Buhari who, he said, would be calculating on having a divided votes from opposition to make him win by “default.”
We are making the efforts to ensure that only one candidate is picked against him. He is banking on the fact that there would be so many candidates that would contest against him and would divide their votes and he would win by default; he is deceiving himself. We would do our best to ensure all reasonable people gather their votes and vote out the bad government, which is represented by Buhari,”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment