Share this on WhatsApp



There are strong indications that the new Nigeria national carrier project, Nigeria Air may be standing on a shaking ground following revelations that FG may have not sealed any aircraft purchase or lease deal at the just concluded England’s Farnborough airshow, National Daily has gathered.

Though a record number of deals worth $192 billion (164 billion euros) were consummated, a ministerial source in the know of happenstances at the Airshow told National Daily that no deal has been finalized at the end of the Airshow.
The source however said discussions are still ongoing between the federal government and the two global leaders in aircraft production; Airbus and Boeing.
Already, global experts who followed up activities at the London Airshow say the $192bn worth of orders resembles a jump of more than 50 percent compared to 2016 which can further be seen as a sign of “confidence in global trade”.
It was gathered that the biannual air industry gathering recorded more than 1,400 commercial aircraft orders, valued at $154 billion, alongside at least 1,432 deals for engines worth $21.96 billion.
The event organizers argue that the total is an increase of $67.5 billion on the last airshow two years ago, with the mile-high rivalry between Boeing and Airbus — who made the majority of plane orders — swelling sales.
Besides, US aviation giant Boeing announced 676 orders, totalling $92 billion at list prices, as of Thursday, while its European competitor had unveiled 431 orders worth $70 billion.
According to the Farnborough International chief executive, Gareth Rogers, “The major deals announced this week demonstrate how confident the aerospace industry is and the role of Farnborough as an economic barometer”.
“The show attracted its most global attendance ever with around 100 countries represented and a record Chinese presence, Farnborough said in a statement.
There was also a near-10 percent rise in trade visitors compared to previous years, with more than 80,000 visitors passing through the gates for exhibition access.
The new carrier whose logo was unveiled last week by the Minister of State for Aviation, Capt Hadi Sirika, is expected to commence operation December 24, 2018.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment