Share this on WhatsApp



The Police have decisively shot the door of the Force against corrupt officers, show commitment to restoring discipline and regaining public confidence.
Accordingly, the Assistant Inspector General of Police, AIG Adamu Ibrahim, in charge of Zone 2 Command, ordered the sack of four police operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Ikeja, Lagos State, over illegal detention, robbery and other crimes.
CSP Dolapo Badmus, the Zone’s Public Relations Officer, confirmed the dismissal on Sunday in Lagos, indicating that the dismissed officers include Sgt. Adeoye Adekunle; Sgt. Adekitan Adebowale; Sgt. Agbi Lucky and Sgt. Odighe Hehosa.
She added that the four policemen were dismissed and subsequently charged to court for armed robbery, kidnapping, unlawful detention, intimidation and threatening violence.
Badmus narrated that the Force Investigation Panel recommended the officers for dismissal based on the report of the investigation carried out on a petition against them.
She explained that a petition submitted by Chukwudi Godwin Odionye, popularly referred to as “Bishop” on May 2, 2018.
Badmus highlighted: “The petitioner stated that on June 4, 2017, he was in his house around Alagbado area of Lagos State when four armed men stormed his house to effect his arrest on the allegation of performing ‘FAKE’ miracles.
“He stated that after his arrest, he was taken to one hotel at Agege where he was detained and threatened to be killed if he fails to cooperate.
“He explained further that the following day, June 5, 2017, he was taken to the bank where he was made to transfer N7 million to the account of one of the operatives.
“On receipt of the petition, the AIG ordered investigation into the case.
“On the strength of investigation, it was revealed that no proper police procedure for investigation was followed in Chukwudi’s arrest.
“The four SARS operatives actually abducted the man from his house and unlawfully detained him in the hotel under the guard of the suspects for personal gain.”
The Zone PPRO maintained that the AIG has issued directive that the Force would not tolerate any act of misconduct, which undermines the value of international best practices of the Police.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment