Share this on WhatsApp
Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has described the government of President Muhamadu Buhari as the most corrupt since the return of democracy to Nigeria in 1999.




Abubakar spoke in Abakaliki on Tuesday while addressing supporters of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) at the state secretariat of the party. He was in Ebonyi to continue his campaign to emerge PDP presidential candidate in 2019.
He said the only achievement the All Progressive Congress (APC) led government can boast of is fighting corruption; but argued that fighting corruption is not the only responsibility of government.
“So, let nobody come and deceive you on corruption. They are more corrupt than any government that I know since 1999 and we shall be revealing their level of corruption. Fighting corruption alone is not the only responsibility of government.
“Our unemployment has accelerated high and there has never been a time we had more than 11million people, young people, young women thrown out of job. Today, we have more than 11 million unemployed people. Today, we have witnessed much insecurity in this country. Today, we are witnessing high inflation the APC government has brought to us in this country,” he said.
Abubakar told the mammoth crowd that he was in the state to seek their support to defeat President Buhari in 2019.
He said the coalition formed by PDP and about 37 other parties was the first step in voting out the president in next year’s general election.
While receiving him, Governor David Umahi said the South-east will negotiate the 2019 presidency and that the zone will vote for a presidential candidate who will develop the zone.
“The people of Ebonyi State, the people of South-east will sit down with anybody that is asking our votes to rule this country to negotiate. South east will not follow wrong path again. Anybody that wants the votes of South-east will sit on the table with the leaders of South-east, we shall agree, we shall write it, we shall sign it, we shall seal it.
Umahi said Abubakar has all it takes to be‎ president of the country.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment