Share this on WhatsApp

Vows to probe his four years administration




Dr. Kayode Fayemi, former Minister of Mines and Steel Development and winner of the July 14 governorship election in Ekiti State, on Thursday, reiterated his vengeance mission in Abuja, declaring total war against Governor Ayodele Fayose as soon as he assumes office.
Fayemi who was in Abuja with Governor Ibikunle Amosun to present the Certificate of returns issued by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), confirming his electoral victory, to President Muhammadu Buhari, declared that it would be irresponsible of him not to probe the activities of the Fayose administration, the revenue portfolio and how the revenue were disbursed in service delivery and infrastructures development.
He insisted that his administration will examine what transpired in the last four years in Ekiti State, including the failure of the Fayose administration to pay workers’ salaries.
Fayemi had declared at the State House, Abuja: “Well, l think we need to remove this election from personalities. This was an election that we fought on issues.
“And it will be irresponsible on my part to come here and say that we will not examine what transpired in the last four years in the manner of government. What was received in Ekiti State and the expenditures in that period? Why were we not able to pay salaries in the state?
“These issues should be examined in the interest of good governance. It is not about probing Fayose or probing Eleka or probing anybody. It is about not repeating the mistakes of the past and giving our people good governance and how to do so will also involve looking at what transpired in the last four years.’’
Fayemi further denied allegation of vote-buying during the Saturday governorship election in Ekiti State. He said that the polling unit where he voted, her did not notice any vote buying, expressing that he felt the same process had occurred in other polling units across the state.
“I haven’t any substantive evidence of allegations of vote-buying and intimidation.
“In the place where l voted, there was no vote-buying anywhere. As far as our party is concerned, we did not engage in that, it is not our style.
“We won the election fair and square and it was an election that we fought on issues and not on the basis of any vote-buying. So, whoever has any evidence of that should present it to an independently verifiable audience,’’ Fayemi stated.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment