Share this on WhatsApp



On a visit to the reconstructed Stephen Keshi Stadium, to ascertain it’s preparedness to host the 2018 CAA Competition at Asaba, Patriot Dantes Odogwu, SSA New Media, was full of eulogies for the construction firm. He acknowledged their commitment towards ensuring that the project was ready to host the event that would hold, from Aug 1-5, 2018,National Daily learnt.
He expressed satisfaction with the contractors, who according to him had kept with pace and ensured that the quality of the job was not compromised.
He also commended Mr. Tony Okowa, Chairman,State Sports Commission and Chief Solomon Ogba, Chairman LOC, for their zeal and untiring support to ensure that the Stadium as envisioned, sees the light of the day.
He further reasoned that with the CAA Competition as a test-event of the entire facilities in the stadium, there would definitely be an open door for more and bigger sporting competitions to be hosted in Delta State.
Still speaking on the extent of preparation for the CAA Competition, the SSA appreciated the Governor who had set up a team to assist in maintaining orderly traffic movement, emphasizing that various side roads around the Stadium have been tarred to ease vehicular and pedestrian movements.
.
In analysing work done so far on the stadium, the SSA stated that the 9-Lane standard track, in-built warm up section, fibre roofing and Cladding of the entire outer covering of the stadium are first of its kind in Nigeria.
Continuing, he said that the standard foot ball pitch (110mX72m), natural green grass in the field, modern dressing room, different marching-in sections for Home and Away team and media centre are all landmark initiatives which could only be found in either Abuja or Uyo stadiums.
Patriot Dantes Odogwu commended the Governor greatly; he noted that Sen. Dr. Okowa is a man with midas touch. He opined that in all that the governor does, there is always a demonstration of excellence and perfection.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment