Share this on WhatsApp











Ronaldo has played in the Premier League with Manchester United and he’s played in La Liga with Real Madrid. Now, at 33, the Portugal star is taking his talents to Italy’s Serie A to play for defending champion Juventus. The transfer, reportedly worth $116 million, was made on Tuesday but …
Cristiano Ronaldo will pay his tax debts before leaving Madrid for Juventus. The forward accepted a two-year suspended prison sentence and an €18.8m fine for failure to declare nearly €15m.
In other Real Madrid news, James Rodriguez would like to return to Real Madrid. The forward, currently on loan to Bayern Munich who also have an option to buy, would like to have another chance in the Spanish capital after the departure of former boss Zinedine Zidane.
Also from Spain, Everton transfer target Yerry Mina is open to the possibility of leaving Barcelona. The Colombian defender said in a press conference in Bogata that he is relaxed and would just like to be somewhere that he gets playing time.
Back to Ronaldo, there’s also been pro Ronaldo fans who have taken his new plight for heroics as they mock the One-Club-Man labeled Messi.
And to this our football journalist, Ediale Kingsley has responded:
…but is it bad for Ronaldo to go seeking a thing he is yet to have in Juventus? I am tired of people who are tired of my facts about Ronaldo. The same people all felt good when I did the Dear Ronaldo story. They enjoyed the praise singing and prayed me success.
When I say the truth that doesn’t favor their fancies they call the police!
The virtue you see in the talented player that you use against Messi can also be seen as a weakness.
Why did Pep leave Barca? Why did Neymar leave Barca? Why did Ferguson remain in Man United until retirement?
Like it or not, agree or keep debating, players and coaches move when they want more glories or aren’t in favor with the present system.
If the movement isn’t horizontal, it is caused by either rejection or serious discomfort. If it is vertical they are trying to seek a better challenge or favorable condition.
Ronaldo has always moved horizontal until this moment. Sporting CP to Man United was an upward movement. When you are in Sporting Lisbon’s academy, you are thinking of one day playing in a major club like Madrid or Barca. Going to Man United is also a big dream. When you are a student of La Masia. Your dream is Barca first team shirt.
Messi made it to the top. Where else do you want him to go? Down?
Where did Iniesta go? Where did Xavi go? They left the competition. Cos they already had to compete at the highest level.
When you get up—unless you are no longer wanted like a couple of some old barca players—you best bet is to stay up.
If you want Messi in Man United, Chelsea… Keep dreaming o (after all who am I tell you not to dream).
Ronaldo at 34, an EPL success, a La Liga success has gone to Italy for more glories.
He doesn’t have a treble. He doesn’t have a World Cup. He has a lot. But these he doesn’t mind having in Italy. And it’s very possible in Italy. Juve, unlike Madrid dominate their league. And they have almost won the Champions League in recent times.
Going to Ronaldo strengthens his folklore. As a player that has experienced three major league. He isn’t the first great player to do so.
If he was in Barca at the age he was in Sporting. And was as relevant as Messi was. I doubt if he will leave.
You call it challenge-seeking, someone else, a Facebook page away, calls it club prostituting.
Loyalty to a club, what you call a one-club man, isn’t a bad thing. It is graceful and a virtue as well.

















Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment