Share this on WhatsApp
















Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has engaged his former godfather in the state politics, Senator George Akume, in total political war in the battle for the soul of Benue towards 2019 general elections.  The governor before he defected from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), abandoning the ruling party to the godfather, commenced uprooting of Akume’s implants in the State Government.
Ortom dissolved the State Cabinet, booted out Akume’s commissioners and advisers in the state executive council and replaced them with his men.
Thereafter, Ortom proceeded to the State House of Assembly where the Speaker, Right Honourable Terkimbi Ikyange, was impeached last Tuesday and subsequently, suspended from legislative activities for six months on Friday.
National Daily gathered that 21 of the 30 members of the House of Assembly impeached Speaker Terkimbi Ikyange on Tuesday, July 24, 2018. At an emergency meeting of19 lawmakers in the House which held at the old Banquet Hall of the Benue State Government House, Makurdi, the Speaker was suspended from legislative activities for six months.
The meeting was shifted from the House of Assembly complex to the old Banquet Hall of the Benue State Government House when the police prevented the lawmakers from gaining access to their offices.
National Daily gathered that the Police, however, obstructed the lawmakers from entering the Assembly complex in order to forestall chaos and breakdown of law and order in the state. The new Speaker Titus Ubah, APC Kyaan, and the impeached Speaker, Terkimbi Ikyange, APC Ushongo, were said to be claiming occupancy of the Speaker’s Office while at the Assembly complex and their supporters forcing their way into the Assembly premises climbing the high fence round the complex.
Thus, the two leaders and their supporters were prevented from gaining access into the Assembly complex for sitting. The House, thereafter, adjourned from July 10 to Aug.15, 2018.








































Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment