Share this on WhatsApp



Developments in the National Assembly show that the Federal Legislature is closing in on rolling out its disciplinary hammer on Senator Ovie Omo-Agege over the stealing of the Mace during Plenary on the floor of the Senate on April 18, 2018, by thugs who accompanied the Senator who was on suspension to the Chambers. Omo-Agege, who appeared to have been shielded by the President from prosecution over the assault and disgrace of the National Assembly, has been indicated by the National Assembly Joint Committee that investigated the Mace theft in April. The Mace signifies the symbol of authority in all legislative chambers in Nigeria in the same manner the Coat of Arms represents the symbol of authority for the executive.
Senator Bala Ibn Na’Allah and Betty Apiafi, Co-Chairman of the Joint Investigation Committee inaugurated by both the Senate and the House of representatives, in their report indicated Omo-Agege, and ay be recommending his suspension and prosecution over the mace theft.
National Daily gathered the Joint Committee conducted extensive and exhaustive investigations, interrogated the various agencies, including security, involved in National Assembly duties, before finding evidence linking Omo-Agege to the theft.
The National Assembly, National Daily gathered, may be invoking the provisions of Legislative Houses (Powers and Privileges) Act, 2017, in its report and recommendations.
Section 14 (2) of the Act states: “Where a member commits a contempt of the Legislative House, the Legislative House may by resolution reprimand such person or suspend him from service of the Legislative House, without pay, for such a period as may be determined by the House, but not to the end of a legislative session.”
Section 15 states: “A suspended member of the Legislative House under Section 14 (2) of this Act, shall not enter or remain within the chamber or its precincts while the suspension remains in force.”
A legislative source also revealed that the Joint Committee could extend its recommendation to the prosecution of Omo-Agege for Treasonable Felony.
Curiously, the national Assembly is opening up Omo-Agege’s case at a time the APC is in deepening conflicts that have splinted the party into factions. Apparently, all leading stakeholder, including President Muhamadu Buhari, is struggling for survival, thus, having minimal time for protection of any friend in another conflict.
Embattled Senator Omo-Agege may be going down the drain of his career in the Senate.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment