Share this on WhatsApp



National leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has commended the candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party in Ekiti state, Prof. Olusola Kolapo Eleka and Governor Ayodele Fayose for not resorting to violence at the just concluded governorship election in the state.
In a statement signed by his media officer, Tunde Rahman, entitled – Ekiti Election: A Victory for the People, Tinubu said Prof. Kolapo Olusola conducted a tough and energetic campaign.
”He allowed the people to make their own decision and for his adherence to this democratic principle, he should be recognised,” he said.
Tinubu also commended Governor Ayo Fayose for not crossing the line by trying to subvert the will of the people through violent means. “The same must be said of Gov. Ayo Fayose.
He tried his utmost to bring his candidate to victory but he did not cross the line by trying to subvert the will of the people through violent means.
”I urge Governor Fayose and Prof. Kolapo Eleka, as prominent citizens and leaders of Ekiti, to move forward in that same spirit. Let there be an orderly transition from the outgoing to the incoming government.
Tinubu also urged Dr. Kayode Fayemi, the declared winner, to avoid recriminations and run an all-inclusive government.  ”Dr Fayemi must keep in remembrance that the people have placed their future in his safekeeping and he must justify their trust in him by doing all he can do to advance their welfare.
”I know Fayemi will establish an all-inclusive government that involves all stakeholders in his administration and in the governance of the state,” he said.
”Dr Fayemi is a man of integrity and his government will not be one of recrimination. It is a government of the people and as such will focus its attention on helping the people, not suppressing yesterday’s political opponents.”
Tinubu said that the people of the state had voted to take a path different from the one on which they had been.
”Casting aside all the dire predictions, they conducted themselves with the patience, sobriety and collective wisdom befitting the moment.”

”Instead of turning things upside down, they turned to peace and mutual respect for each other as well as respect for the democratic process. ”Above all else, the election was your election and yesterday was your day! With the choice that you have made, may tomorrow also be your best future,” he said.



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment