Share this on WhatsApp



In his presentation as a Juventus player, Cristiano Ronaldo made it clear that he was in Italy for a new challenge and, at 33, he is determined to prove himself in another top league, adding to his successes in the Premier League and LaLiga. Here are seven challenges that made him want to join the Old Lady of Italian football.
1. To show what he still has to offer
The Portuguese joked about being 10 years younger than his birth certificate suggests upon touching down in Italy and one of his main aims in Serie A will be to show that on the pitch he could be mistaken for someone at the peak of their powers. He commented on players his age usually moving to China or MLS, highlighting himself as something different and he will want to prove that he is still one of the best in the world.
2. To win his sixth Champions League
If there is one competition that defines Cristiano Ronaldo more than any other, it is the Champions League.He has never been shy about confessing his desire to be remembered as one of the tournament’s heroes. Juventus have not lifted the trophy in 22 years and in recent years only Real Madrid and the Portuguese have stood in their way.
3. To boast three Champions Leagues with three different clubs
To be crowned as Mr. Champions League, Ronaldo can do little more than winning it with three separate clubs. Clarence Seedorf achieved it, but there are few who can even dream of replicating this feat.
4. To win three leagues in three different countries
Juventus dominate Serie A and have done for seven seasons now, so it is likely that the Portuguese will become a champion in his third country, following success at Manchester United in England and Real Madrid in LaLiga.
5. To become Juventus’ top scorer in a season
Thirty-five is the number he will be aiming at here, with Hungarian striker Ferenc Hirzer holding the club’s scoring record since 1925/26. Close to a century later, Ronaldo will have his eyes on 35 from the moment he starts his first game in black and white.
6. To win top scorer and a Golden Shoe with three different clubs
Having finished as Spain and Europe’s top scorer three times at Real Madrid and as Europe’s most lethal finisher once at Manchester United, the 33-year-old will be desperate to be crowned capocannoniere in Serie A.Cristiano Ronaldo’s Golden Shoes
2007/08: 31 goals with Manchester United
2010/11: 40 goals with Real Madrid
2013/14: 31 goals with Real Madrid
2014/15: 48 goals with Real Madrid
7. To win a sixth Ballon d’OrTo overtake Lionel Messi in the Ballon d’Or count would be huge for the Portuguese, though he has played it down himself. Should he guide Juventus to success on all fronts, you would not bet against him being named the world’s best again.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment