Share this on WhatsApp



The President of Nigeria Football Federation and Member, Executive Committee of Confederation of African Football, Mr. Amaju Pinnick has been appointed as the match commissioner for Friday’s 2018 FIFA World Cup quarter final match between France and Uruguay in Nizhny Novgorod,National Daily learnt.
Pinnick, also a Member of the Organizing Committee for FIFA Competitions, commissioned group phase encounter between European champions Portugal and Iran in Saransk on Monday last week, as well as the Group G match between Tunisia and Panama in the same city on Thursday. Portugal and Iran drew 1-1 while Tunisia, one of Africa’s five flagbearers, edged Panama 2-1.
On Tuesday, 2nd July, Pinnick was in charge of the Round of 16 encounter that pitched Sweden against Switzerland at Saint Petersburg, which is actually Pinnick’s original centre at the FIFA World Cup.
The NFF President will also take charge of the first semi final match, scheduled for Saint Petersburg’s Zenit Arena on Tuesday, 10th July, as well as the third place match at the same venue on Saturday, 14th July.
Since becoming a Member of the CAF Executive Committee in March 2017, Pinnick has facilitated the appointment of several Nigerians into FIFA and CAF Committees. A former Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Ayotunde Philips is a Member of the FIFA Disciplinary Committee (Adjudicatory Chamber) while Shehu Dikko, NFF 2nd Vice President, is a Member of the FIFA Football Stakeholders Committee.
NFF 1st Vice President Seyi Akinwunmi is a Member of the CAF Committee for Youth Compeitions; Shehu Dikko is a Member of the Club Competitions and Club Licensing System Committee; Ibrahim Gusau is a Member of the CHAN Organizing Committee; Yusuf Ahmed is a Member of the CAF Technical and Development Committee; Obinna Ogba is a Member of the Futsal and Beach Soccer Committee; Dr. Peter Singabele is a Member of the CAF Medical Committee and; Chisom Ezeoke is a Member of the CAF Women Football Committee.
A Senior Advocate of Nigeria, A. U. Mustapha is the President of CAF Appeal Board and Samson Adamu is now the Director of Competitions of CAF.
Pinnick has now been nominated for the CAF 1st Vice Presidency following the resignation of Kwesi Nyantakyi – a big step towards his being elected as a Member of the FIFA Council, the most powerful group in world football.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment