Share this on WhatsApp

Inaugurates anti-corruption club in secondary schools




The Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has modified the anti-corruption war in Nigeria from catching the thieves to forestalling the occurrence of corruption through indoctrination of moral virtues in the young population.
In the modified anti-corruption war model of catch-them-young, the ICPC in Imo State established and inaugurated anti-corruption club in Sacred Heart Secondary School, Akwakuma, Owerri North Government Area.
National Daily gathered that in a speech on the importance of Anti-corruption Club in Secondary Schools Monday, the Chief Superintendent and Head of Public Enlightenment Unit, ICPC Imo State, Chinwe Nwozor, emphasized that a corrupt society holds no future for its youth as there will be no sound education and no gainful employment.
She highlighted that corruption retards societal development and frustration among the youth; cautioning, “it promises only poverty with no future and no means of livelihood.”
Nwozor admonished that the corruption cancer worm, is responsible for inadequate funding of schools’ laboratories and almost the dearth of public schools.
She encouraged students to stand up against corrupt practices even when their friends are involved; advising teachers and parents, to borrow a leaf from the Holy Book (Bible) which encouraged parents to bring up their children in “the fear of God and when they grow up, they will not depart from the way”.
Nwozor indicated that youths could help in the fight against corruption by joining the anti- corruption clubs in their schools, enlightening them that a member of anti–corruption club should be strong enough to report and stand against any teacher who demands for sex or money from students in exchange for examination grades.
The students were assured of adequate protection of ICPC to members of the club against possible victimization by teachers, school management or fellow students.
Nwozor advised the students to avoid such vices like fighting, stealing, cheating, drug abuse, Exam malpractices, cultism, bribery, sexual harassment etc.
National Daily gathered that the Principal of the School, Mrs. Osuji Glad-Joans, had expressed gratitude to the Commission for its wonderful initiative of actively engaging students and pupils in the fight against corruption by inculcating sound moral values in them as well as entrenching integrity into the school’s system.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment