Share this on WhatsApp

Orders arraignment of Lawyer, three Channel’s TV staff




Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court, Abuja, has introduced a twist to the trial of Olise Metuh, former National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on allegation of N400 million improprieties.
The presiding Judge of the High Court, on Tuesday, ordered the arraignment of a legal practitioner, Mr. Ben-Chuks Nwosu, and three Channels Television staff – Messrs Chamberlain Usoh, Gimba Umar and Nneota Egbe, for alleged contempt on a report he admitted is a speculation.
Justice Abang, delivering a ruling on Tuesday, after listening to an unedited video of the programme in open court, was of the view that the lawyer and Channels TV staff should  be arraigned for participating and anchoring an AM programme on the station, “Sunrise Daily ” where contemptuous and prejudicial questions were alleged to be asked and comments were made by Nwosu, Counsel to a former National Publicity Secretary of the opposition PDP, Mr. Olisa Metuh, who is standing trial on alleged N400 million money laundering.
National Daily gathered that Justice Abang held that the accused should be arraigned in any court of coordinate jurisdiction within the jurisdiction of the court under Section 134(4) of the Criminal Code.
The Judge was said to have ordered that they should be arraigned for the court to determine whether questions asked by the three anchor men and the comments by Mr. Nwosu were not contemptuous and misleading to the public.
Justice Abang held that upon arraignment, the court shall determine whether Channels TV had not made prejudicial statement thereby misleading the public as well as distorting the facts of the case for selfish reason.
In a seeming uncertainty of realities, the Judge was said to have given the Federal Government 30 day’s ultimatum to comply with the order but remarked: ‘’I cannot order arraignment of Ojogbane because I did not see his face, and his picture was not used. I only heard a voice, and it is risky to speculate.”
Justice Abang further ordered the Senior Manager, News and Programmes, Channels TV, Oluyemisi Ipaye, to within seven days from July 3, file 10 copies of the transcript of questions asked by the anchors of the programme.
He also ordered Ipaye to file 10 copies of the DVD showing questions asked by the anchors and comments made by Nwosu and Ojogbane.
Justice Abang also told the prosecution to within 10 days, refer the matter to the Disciplinary Committee of the Nigerian Bar Association, (NBA). The Judge held that this was for the body to determine whether the comments made by Nwosu on the programme were in violation of Rules 33 of Rules of Professional Conduct of Legal Practitioners 2007.
The Judge further directed that the defence and prosecuting counsel should meet with the management of Channels TV to agree that the transcript represents questions asked and answers gotten.
Thereafter, Justice Abang reopened Metuh’s suits in order to enable him testify personally, as well as call two additional witnesses.
It was gathered that Justice Abang later vacated the order earlier made on May 25, closing Metuh’s case, noting that the order was made in default, because his (Metuh) counsel was not heard.
Justice Abang subsequently cautioned Metuh not to cause any unpleasant scene or fall in the courtroom again, insisting that the proceedings shall be on a daily basis.
The suit was adjourned to Wednesday, July 4, 2018 for the defence to call its remaining witnesses.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment