Share this on WhatsApp

As Keyamo declares Minister’s removal directive  null and void




President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick, has made an appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari to reverse the directive of the Minister of Sports,  Solomon Dalung, ordering his removal from Office and reinstatement of Chris Giwa as NFF President. Pinnick made the appeal on Monday through his counsel, Festus Keyamo.
Festus Keyamo, Head of Keyamo Chambers, on Monday, raised alarm over perceived illegal action being directed by the Minister of Sports, Mr. Solomon Dalung, for change of leadership in the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF).
Keyamo, whose Chambers are solicitors to Mr. Amaju Pinnick and the present Board of the NFF which he heads, in a statement on Monday, acknowledged the statement issued at the behest of the Minister of Sports, Mr. Solomon Dalung, directing the NFF to comply with certain court orders effecting a change of leadership in the NFF.
He declared that the NFF President wished to alert the general public and the authorities in Nigeria that the so-called directive by the Minister of Sports is null, void and of no effect for certain obvious reasons.
Keyamo remarked that  whilst their clients respect the sanctity of court orders, unfortunately, the said court orders are not binding on FIFA, the World Football Governing Body.
He contended that the NFF is an affiliate of FIFA, warning: “It should be noted that FIFA has consistently maintained that this same matter has been taken to the highest Court of Sports Arbitration in Switzerland by these same individuals and they have lost.”
He remarked: “FIFA is only bound by the decision of the Court of Arbitration for Sports AND DOES NOT ENTERTAIN OR TOLERATE decisions by local courts in footballing nations worldwide.
“Hence, FIFA has since upheld the decision of the Court of Arbitration on this matter and recognized the NFF Board led by Amaju Pinnick.”
Keyamo advocated that “Nigeria has a duty to comply with that decision;” observing further: “In addition, for the indiscretion of those individuals like Chris Giwa to approach the local courts, FIFA has since imposed a worldwide ban on them from all footballing activities.”
Keyamo admonished: “The end result is that Chris Giwa and his so-called Board members do not have any locus standi with regards to footballing matters and the Federal Government CANNOT have any dealing with them on any footballing matter.
“The obvious implication of all these is that if any attempt is made to recognize Chris Giwa and derecognize Amaju Pinnick and his Board, FIFA WILL DEFINITELY IMPOSE A LENGTHY BAN ON NIGERIA from all football competitions locally and internationally and that will spell doom for Nigerian Football.”
Keyamo highlighted that the immediate casualties of this ban would be (a) The Falconets who have qualified and are scheduled to participate in the Under-20 Female World Cup in July, 2018; (b) The final phases of the AFCON Qualifiers for the Super Eagles scheduled for August/September, 2018; (c) The Super Falcons defending their title in December in Ghana; (d) No Nigerian Club side would be allowed to participate in the Continental Championships and (e) the future of all Nigerian players based in Nigeria would be in jeopardy as no Nigerian player would be allowed to be sold or transferred to any club anywhere in the world.
Keyamo, thereafter, attached the latest letter from FIFA to Chris Giwa, through his lawyers, confirming the position of FIFA on the matter.
The legal counsel subsequently stated: “In view of these facts above, our clients have taken steps to vacate the orders given by the Federal High Court in Jos;” arguing: “It should be noted that the said orders were given ex-parte (one-sided), as no other person was served with court processes.
“It should also be noted that the orders were given against Amaju Pinnick and his Board members (who are not parties to the case and were never served) and in favour of Chris Giwa (who is also not a party to the case).
“Besides, these orders are to last for only fourteen (14) days as provided by the Rules of Court.
“Our clients state these facts as they are in order to inform the public of the nature of the orders given without meaning to denigrate the authority of the court.”
Keyamo narrated that the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, SAN, a few weeks ago, having studied the Supreme Court judgment, has already advised (by a letter dated 13th June, 2018) that the matter is subjudice, and that Government cannot intervene at this point. He advised all parties to await the FINAL DETERMINATION of the case.
Keyamo pointed out that, “however, in a desperate attempt to assume office at all costs, Chris Giwa sneaked back to court to obtain these ex-parte (one-sided) orders prompting the office of the Attorney-General to issue yet another advice again dated June 26, 2018, advising compliance to the court order.”
He remarked that their clients have urged restraint and caution because the substantive matter is pending in court and has not been fully determined. “Our clients have also taken steps to set aside these orders. Therefore, it is important that the Government awaits the full and final determination of the entire matter.
“It may be the contention of Chris Giwa and his so-called Board that the Rule of Law must be obeyed which means an immediate enforcement of the one-sided (ex-parte) orders.
“However, Nigeria is also bound to abide, recognize and enforce the decisions of the Courts of Arbitration for Sports which have since dismissed the case of Chris Giwa and his so-called Board, and affirmed Amaju Pinnick and his Board as the authentic leadership of the NFF.
“Our clients are therefore VERY SHOCKED that despite these glaring questions marks, the Minister of Sports refused to advise Government correctly as to the position of FIFA on this matter and the existence of an Award against Chris Giwa and his so-called Board by the Court of Arbitration for Sports,” Keyamo protested.
He warned that the Press Release by the Minister of Sports would definitely cripple football in Nigeria and make Nigeria a pariah State regarding football.
“Our clients  urge the President and Commander-in-Chief, President Muhammadu Buhari, to urgently reverse the position of the Minister of Sports and save Nigerian Football from collapse,” Keyamo declared.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment