Share this on WhatsApp







Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State, on Wednesday, raised alarm over alleged plot to assassinate him by security operatives deployed to the state for the Saturday governorship election. The Ekiti Governor who has been deeply involved in the campaign and mobilization of grassroots support for the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Professor Olusola Kolapo, incumbent Deputy Governor of Ekiti State, alleged that policemen deployed to the state for the governorship election stormed the PDP campaign ground and harassed him.
National Daily gathered that Governor Fayose was of the view that the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, should be held responsible if anything happened to him.
 “My people, the Lord will fight this battle. The COMPOL MOPOL of Nigeria Police and the AIG ordered that the governor should be killed. I was slapped by a policeman and shot at.
“But I want you to be of great courage. This battle must be won. This is an army of occupation. I want you to stand and remain standing.
“I hope they will not cause 1983 crisis. I call on the international community, Ekiti is under siege. How can I be the Governor of the state and be treated this way? I will go back to the hospital and remain there for a while.
“Stand with Eleka. I am having a lot of pain and I decide to bear this pain because of you, I am pleading with the international community, Nigeria is in trouble. They have arrested so many teachers, many okada riders, they put them in jail. Come and save Ekiti, this is our hour of tribulation.
“They said they have the instruction go kill me and the candidate of our party. They said they have the result they would announce on Saturday,” Fayose declared.
And the Governor wept.
At the mid-hours of Wednesday, Governor Fayose was reported to have been in coma after purportedly inhaling teargas fired at Government House and was rushed to government House Clinic where he was revived by the doctors.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment