Share this on WhatsApp

There are indications that the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, may be preparing for his exit from the ruling All progressives Congress (APC) following the dumping of the party by his chief of staff, Hakeem Baba-Ahmad, on Monday.

National Daily gathered that while Hakeem gave non- performance of the party in the last three years as part of his reasons for leaving the party, inside sources revealed that his exit was part of the plans for the  mass exodus of new Peoples’ Democratic Party  (nPDP), including Saraki from the ruling party.

Addressing reporters in Kaduna on Monday, Baba-Ahmad said he had already sent his resignation letter to the party chairman of his ward.

He described his decision to exit APC as a difficult one to make, saying he took it after due consultation with members of his Akida faction of APC in Kaduna.

Baba-Ahmad alleged that the APC government had under-performed in the country.

“This statement is to inform the public of my resignation from APC. I have sent a formal letter to this effect to chairman of my ward,” he said.

 “After three years, however, I need to say that the APC has grossly under-performed and has forfeited any claim to my loyalty and continue membership. I do not believe in all conscience, that it should be trusted and encouraged to continue to govern our great country beyond 2019.

“I am not leaving to join another party. This is my decision and mine alone. It has nothing to do with the President of the Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki.

“It’s a decision taken after due consultations with Akida Group, a group that has predated my appointment as Chief of Staff to the President of the Senate.

“I will remain active in politics, as this is the main avenue for salvaging our nation from rising insecurity, poverty and divisions.”

Baba-Ahmed was one time chairman of Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) and interim chairman of APC in Kaduna state.

The relationship between Saraki, a member of the nPDP faction of the APC, and the leadership of the ruling party is not smooth.

There were reports that he alongside some nPDP members would defect from the APC before the convention but that never happened.

The faction teamed up with the All Progressives Congress (APC) to dislodge the PDP from power in 2015.

But it later accused the ruling party of marginalisation. Leaders of the group had demanded to meet with President Muhammadu Buhari over their grievances but he directed them to Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo.

In a statement by Baraje, the faction said consultations had been going on and the position of the group would be made known soon.

Senate President Bukola Saraki; Yakubu Dogara, speaker of the House of Representatives; and Aminu Tambuwal, governor of Sokoto, are among members of the group.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment