Share this on WhatsApp





Leaders of the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) have extended their consultations on the search for a presidential candidate to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019 to the South, holding a consultation meeting with former President Olusegun Obasanjo in Abeokuta, Ogun State.

Professor Ango Abdullahi, the image maker of NEF, was gathered to have led a three-man delegation to Abeokuta where they held a meeting with Dr. Obasajo, leader of the Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM), which is on the path of forming the Third Force in the polity towards the 2019 presidential election.

The deliberations at the  meeting were said to be focused on the need to search for a consensus candidate to unite all opposition forces in the presidential election against the incumbent president in 2019.

They were said to have expressed concerns on sponsoring a credible presidential candidate with national appeal, capable of gathering votes and receiving support across the country in the 2019 general elections.

A new alliance is likely to be on the offing from the Obasanjo meeting with Ango Abdulahi in subsequent deliberations.

Ango Abdulahi and several other northern leaders have been consulting within the NEF and the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) dialoguing on the need to search for a successor to President Buhari in 2019.

Obasanjo, on the other hand, has been mobilising political forces in the South West and the South East to join forces to unseat Buhari in 2019.

While the consultation between Obasanjo and Northern leaders expand the scope of national mobilisation for a credible presidential candidate holds, the Afenifere of the south west, Ohaneze of the south east, and PANEF in the south-south, have been consulting on similar agenda towards 2019.

Apparently, the consultations have been seeking to unite stakeholders across the 36 states of the federation to wrest power from the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2019.








Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment