Share this on WhatsApp

As Ondo PDP holds solidarity protest




The rising incidence of political violence perpetuated by the Police against supporters and leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has continued to generate tension and pressure for broader violent uprising in the country. Leaders and supporters of the PDP, on Thursday, took to the streets in Abuja, Federal capital Territory (FCT), and Akure, Ondo State, protesting the attack on Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State by the Police in less than 72 hours to the Saturday, July 14, 2018, governorship election in the state.
PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, on Thursday, led the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to the National Assembly to protest the alleged assault by men of the Nigeria Police on Governor Fayose.
Governor Fayose was reported to have lost consciousness on Wednesday after teargas canisters were alleged to be fired into Government House, Ado-Ekiti by security operatives. The governor also alleged further assault on him by the Police.
Accordingly, PDP leaders marched to the National Assembly to register their protest and demanding transparent election in Ekiti State. PDP leaders who joined the National Chairman, Uche Secondus, in the protest include former President of the Senate, Adolphus Wabara; former Minister of Health, Prof. ABC Nwosu; former National Woman Leader, Josephine Anenih; and former Majority Leader of the Senate, Mulikat Akande-Adeola, among others.
The Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, who received the PDP protesters on behalf of the President of the Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, promised that the National Assembly would contact the various institutions involved in the conduct of the Ekiti State governorship election to deliberate on the issues raised and ensure free, fair and peaceful election, after listening to their  demand for a free, fair and credible governorship election in Ekiti on Saturday and condemnation of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for justifying the police brutality on a serving PDP Governor.
Ondo PDP also carried out mass protest within the state, expanding the frontiers agitation of the alleged police brutality in Ekiti State, condemning in strong terms the security threats to intimidate PDP leaders and supporters in the Ekiti State governorship election.
Meanwhile, it is expected that the trend will not be allowed to spread and be sustained; this could have multiplier effects on the 2019 general elections, with potential danger of uncontrollable violent protests across the country.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment