Share this on WhatsApp



“The greatest power on Earth is the magnificent power all of us possess … the power of the human brain!” – Charles Xavier of X-Men fame (Marvel comics)
After traveling across Nigeria, seeing what is going on in fantastic Engineering programs at Accra and observing young teens at the Queensland University in Brisbane, Australia; I remain convinced more than ever that we should tap and develop the STEM skills of our students in Nigeria and Africa. Before I delve into my findings; a quick recap is needed as I have met some of our population who required a quick explanation.
WHAT IS STEM?
STEM is an acronym for science, technology, engineering, and math. Some people also include art and call it STEAM! In STEM Education we emphasize engagement with students across all of these subjects, especially on integrating these subjects in various ways. An instance of this is when a science lesson incorporates math and engineering, also when a math lesson incorporates the use of technology.
Activities that are STEM-based integrate these four areas of learning.  For example, a block-building activity can involve experimenting and learning about the natural world (Science), using tools to measure (Technology), solving a problem during building  (Engineering), and  comparing sizes of blocks (Math).

WHY IS STEM IMPORTANT?
From my observations in working with children and letting them flow towards discovery while learning, children love taking part in STEM activities! From interactions with children, I have come up with 10 relevant reasons why for raising super duper children!
By the way- notice the reference to Marvel Comic books with my quote? That should tell you how much I love Comic books. If you are an avid reader of them, you’d notice how integral STEM is to solving the challenges in them and how they are have actually propelled the relevance of STEM more than ever. Need I mention Black Panther or how Disney donated $1,000,000 for a STEM center in Oakland, California?
8 REAL LIFE REASONS STEM IS FOR CHILDREN
Creating real world STEM activities or lessons does supply numerous skills to children of all ages that they can carry with them all their lives. Boosting their thinking toolbox at their young ages and be amazed at what they will accomplish in the future.
STEM is here to stay and a huge part of our world. We need thinkers, doers, and inventors to make this world a better place.
1)   OBSERVING REAL LIFE NEEDS
We require children who are highly observant and see what their city, their state, their country, or their world needs and zoom on how to create solutions. Get kids out and about, looking and noticing everything around them. Encourage them to ask questions to develop their inquiry skills. Ask them what they would do to change about the world and then ask them how they would go about it.
2)   SOLVING PROBLEMS
In continuation from #1, once you see a need, create a solution. Go beyond complaining about what needs doing. Be the one to do it. Let’s embolden our children to be the ones who stand up.
3)   CRITICAL THINKING
Critical thinking is crucial. Reassuring children to think outside the box and to work without guidance leads to great inventions and discoveries. Critical thinking inspires us to try new ideas, work in exceptional ways, and take chances.
4)   TAKING CHANCES
The previous three steps; Observing needs, developing ideas, experimenting with solutions boosts an significant level of risk taking that lots of children are trained to avoid in the current model of  the school system. We aren’t discussing jumping off building. This risk taking is willing to stand up for your idea, make it happen, and accept failure as an impetus to try again.
5)   GOING AHEAD THROUGH FAILURE
When I was growing up, one saying  that really struck me was the saying “When the going gets tough, the tough gets going” Ability to deal with failure is a crucial life skill children must have to navigate through life successfully. Handling failure with calm sets them up to forge ahead, apply critical thinking skills, and try again. Pushing through failure ultimately leads to success.
6)   COMMUNICATION IS KEY
Communicating with others; asking questions like; What works? What doesn’t work? If we change this will this happen? Multiple ideas synergize to create answers. Communicating your observations and solutions accurately and effectively whether through recording data, writing reports, or giving presentations is vital.
7)   LEARNING A PROCESS
Science, Math, Technology and the Engineering design process are necessary for carrying out experiments as well as communication skills in the  process of completing a project from start to finish. These STEM skills on how to research, plan, gather data, design, and draw conclusions are vital to the success of children being solution providers.
8)   APPLICATION OF LEARNED SKILLS
One question I am asked a lot by children when working with them; “When will I ever need this?” Well I tell them; one day it could be this piece of information that connects the dots at an exam, an interview, a perplexing puzzle during a project.
Let’s keep driving the STEM revolution in Africa to lead to our own economic prosperity!
Adetola Salau; Educator / Speaker / Author/ Social Entrepreneur / Innovator
She is an Advocate of STEM Education and is Passionate about Education reform. She is an innovative thinker and strives for our society & continent as a whole to reclaim it’s greatness. She runs an educational foundation with the mission to transform education.
E-mail-:Carismalife4U@gmail.com
facebook-: Carisma4u
twitter-: @Carisma4u
Website-: www.carisma4u.com
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment