Share this on WhatsApp



Former chairman of the PDP, Ali Sheriff, has been appointed the Director-General of Buhari 2019 Presidential Support Committee, a body different from the Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO).
The BCO is headed by Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, as its Director-General and Human Rights Lawyer Festus Keyamo as the spokesperson and Director, Strategic Communications.
But the Sheriff group comprises 35 members, 10 of whom are on its National Advisory Committee and five members on the National Patrons.
President Muhammadu Buhari as the Grand Patron.
A popular Kano musician, Dauda Rarara, is also appointed National Director Music, while a Nollywood actor and Lagos lawmaker, Desmond Elliot, is the National Publicity Secretary.
The Chief of Staff to the Imo State governor and governorship aspirant of the APC, Uche Nwosu, is the National Secretary.
According to PRNigeria, an agency that distributes press releases for some government agencies, the announcement was made by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Political Matters, Gideon Sammani.
“Prominent individuals were selected after the APC National Convention to build on the momentum of the success to step up preparation within the hierarchy and ranks and file of the party to fully support President Muhammadu Buhari to continue with his programmes and policies for the upliftment and advancement of the country with the manifesto of the APC,” Mr Sammani said.
“In preparation for the reelection of President Buhari in 2019, the Presidential Support Committee, Buhari 2019 has appointed eminent Nigerians to the National Working Committee of the organisation.
“The prominent individuals have been selected from Buhari Support Group in their own rights as loyalists.”
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, former Lagos Governor Bola Tinubu, and Buhari’s cousin Mamman Daura make up the National Patrons of the Committee.
Members of the National Advisory Committee include Matthew Mbu, Ahmed Sani, George Akume, Abdullahi Adamu, and a former senator, Ita Giwa.
Sheriff left the APC in 2014 to head PDP for a while before he was sacked by court in 2017.
He returned to the APC few weeks ago.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment