Share this on WhatsApp



Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), (Operations), Habila Joshak, in a media interaction on Wednesday in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State, declared that the Nigeria Police would withdrawal security aides assigned to Political leaders, including Governor Ayodele Fayose and the APC candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi before the Saturday, July 14, 2018 Governorship Election of Ekiti State. The Police had earlier indicated that no political leader would be allowed to go to polling units with security details so as not to use such to intimidate or harass voters at the polling centres.
The DIG maintained that no political party would be allowed to hold any political rally which is not approved by the Police until the election is held.
National Daily gathered that DIG Joshak insisted that any political rally without the Police permit would not be allowed. He admitted that he was scheduled to work with one Assistant Inspector General AIG of Police, Mr. H.H. Karma, and three Commissioners of Police CP, who include Mr. Ali Janga, J.B. Kokumo and G.B. Umar.
These security arrangements have earlier been revealed by the inspector general of Police, Ibrahim Idris, at the Monday stakeholders meeting in Ado-Ekiti.
Joshak disclosed that the Nigeria Police Command had already directed security details of Governor Fayose and Dr. Fayemi as well as other top government officials to report to the Police Headquarters in Ado-Ekiti at 6.00am this Saturday.
“We won’t allow anybody to go to the polling booth with armed men, because it will be a breach of the Electoral Act.
“We have contacted them and they have to be here before election commences. This election must not be compromised.
“They will be documented and whoever defies this will be sanctioned, because they have been contacted,” the DIG declared.
It was explained that each of the three CPs would be assigned to each of the three senatorial districts in Ekiti State to ensure there is peace and order on the Election Day.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment