Share this on WhatsApp

Five officers, 18 soldiers and 8 trucks are said to still be missing after Boko Haram insurgents ambushed a military convoy at Boboshe village in Bama local government area of Borno state early on Saturday.


National Daily had gathered that the military, acting on intelligence, mobilised troops in a convoy of 11 trucks to clear the insurgents from the deserted village only for them to be ambushed by the insurgents.

The attacking insurgents were believed to have been those who escaped the ongoing offensive by the military to flush out Boko Haram insurgents in the fringes of Sambisa Forest and Lake Chad region.

According to military sources, the insurgents in their hundreds ambushed the troops and in the process many of them have been missing.

The source reportedly said only three of the 11 trucks deployed to the area returned to their base in Maiduguri, after suffering huge loss in the battle with the insurgents.

“There was a quick response by the army when they received reports that hundreds of the insurgents gathered at Boboshe on Maiduguri-Konduga-Bama road,” he was quoted to have said.




“The gallant soldiers were ambushed by the insurgents, only three of the 11 trucks returned to the base. It is not clear what happened but it was assumed the soldiers were missing following the ambush,” he added.”
Meanwhile, residents of Jilli community in Gubio local government council of Borno, on Saturday fled the town sequel to an attack by Boko Haram insurgents.

The insurgent reportedly attacked the area from the axis of Lake Chad.
Malam Bukar Mustapha, one of the residents said that he and other villagers fled their homes when they received report that the insurgents were coming to attack them.

“In the afternoon on Saturday, we heard that the insurgents gathered in the nearby bush preparing for the attack,” he said.

“I am one of those who ran to Maiduguri, which is about 45 kilometres from my village.

“On Sunday morning, I called Gubio and I was told that the insurgents had attacked the town during the night time. I do not have the casualties because the situation is still not clear at Jilli.”




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment