Share this on WhatsApp



Many Nigerians have decried the announcement by Multichoice that it would increase its subscription rates for DStv packages from August 1.
Multichoice in its messages to its subscribers recently, said that it would, however, reduce its rates for Gotv on its satellite platform.
The company which recently announced the proposed increment said that its rate for the Dstv Premium package would be from N14, 700 to N15; 800; the Compact Plus would be increased to N10, 650 from N9, 900.
It added that the Compact package would be from N6,300 to N6,800; Family package would be increased from N3,800 to N4,000, and Access package would be from would be from N1,900 to N2,000.
It, however, said that each of its subscribers on Gotv Max package would begin to pay N3,200 instead of the previous N3,800.
It added that each of its subscribers on Gotv Plus, Gotv Value and Gotv Lite subscribers would be paying N1,900, N1,250 and N400, respectively, on monthly basis.
Some Nigerians condemned the proposed new rates in their posts on their social media platforms.
They said that it would amount to ripping them off of their hard earned money as well as wondered what was responsible for the sudden increase.
National Daily gathered reactions through the company twitter handle in his tweet Mazi Ubadire was quoted as saying: “I just saw a message on my DStv explorer about an upgrade of subscription from high to higher.
“What is the rationale behind this increment of subscription fees on DStv, the company needs to explain.”
Akinlade tweeted: “These DStv guys are not ready to do business. After showing the same programmes repeatedly till the subscriber gets tired, they are increasing their subscriptions.”
Abiodun Bukola said: “DStv has increased the price for premium again. These guys are bold.
“The question we must ask DStv is how come they cannot change their subscriptions to Pay as you use?
“If not for the football channels my husband watches, I would have thrown that decoder in the bin.”
Olamipekun Adeshina tweets: “DStv has increased their subscription again, why are these people ripping us off like this and more importantly, why are we quiet? This madness has to stop.
“I just received a message from DStv about decreasing my channels by 15.8 (%) per cent. Is it with the new tariff or the old tariff? I don’t understand them.
“Is this how DStv will be reaping us up in our own country? Is this obtainable. in other countries where they exist? What happens to our consumer rights?”
Zoba Okorie tweeted: “DStv is a liability not an asset. It takes money off your pocket and doesn’t bring back cash flow. So, if you genuinely can’t afford it for now and pay comfortably, don’t get it.
“Don’t be pressurised by the internet people. Don’t try to fit in, just be you and leave within your means.’’
Blessing Nwanze tweeted: “Even with everyday repeat of movies and programmes, DStv is still increasing the amount of their brochure effective 1 August, 2018.
“This is really more money for nothing. Do we have a government? Can this be regulated or the government is on free subscription.”
 



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment