Share this on WhatsApp



By Lanre Adesanya

The duly elected Women Leader of the All Progressives Congress in Ijaiye Ojokoro Local Council Development Area, Alhaja Fatima Balogun has commended the party’s swift measure taken to restore her allegedly stolen mandate.

Alhaja Balogun whose election was accepted with wild jubilations by APC members, during May 11th Local Government Congress, which was perceived a sign of long time bond with the people was toyed with, but for the state chairman’s Tunde Balogun timely intervention.

According to her,there was an attempt to subvert the will of the people, in spite of her active role in the polity of Ojokoro, describing the move as bad politics.

“What has just happened is bad politics and perpetrators should shun such, if yesterday I stood with them when everyone deserted them,they can be paying me back with undue stress and bad attitude, by colluding with some people to subvert my victory, it speaks volume of their stock in trade.

“I however, laud the Lagos State chairman of APC Alhaji Tunde Balogun and the Secretary,for standing firm on the part of truth, justice, equity and fairness.

“Other dignitaries from Ifako Ijaiye constituency II, our representative in the State Assembly Hon. Rasheed Makinde, Baba ile ogbo, Chief Olaogun, Baba Amje, Hon. Ipaye and teaming members of APC in Ojokoro,who stood their ground to demand justice.


“We have a larger percentage of the politically active people, we cannot afford to  put our destiny in the hands of political scavengers who do not even have good track record in politics or governance.

‘The era of slavery, lies and daylight political robbery is over in Ojokoro i can assure you that come 2019 general election, we shall be a united front in the quest to ensure Governor Ambode recorded a landslide victory in Lagos State.



“I shall use my good office, as the women leader to influence and change the lives of our women for the better, my antecedent ever since in Ojokoro and Ifako Ijaiye bears good testimonies of this claim and much more will come,” Alhaja Balogun said.

The Ojokoro LCDA executive
 chairman Mr. Hameed Tijani when contacted on phone,over the untoward development that happened under his watch,noted that though he was at the APC State secretariat, earlier on Thursday, on the invitation of the State Chairman for an 11am appointment and having waited till five minutes to 12.

“The party state chairman was not yet around and I had to rush off to Blue Roof for a programme where the Governor was giving grants to CDA’s, so whatever later came from ACME I am not aware”.













Meanwhile a release from the concerned camp in the Ojokoro political circle,that was seen on the social media later yesterday,noted that at no time did the state chairman meddle with the Ojokoro polity after swearing-in the lg chairmen,urging the public to discountenance the women leader’s claim regarded as an attempt rattle the party.














Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment