Share this on WhatsApp



Senator Rafiu Ibrahim from Kwara state has described Nasir el-Rufai, governor of Kaduna state as a double-faced aggrieved governor who should be ignored by the people.
Ibrahim, one of the APC senators who defected to the PDP on Tuesday disclosed this on Friday while reacting to a statement credited to the diminutive governor that 8thsenate was the worst in the history of the country.
The lawmaker, representing Kwara south, said el-Rufai is feeling pained by the rejection of the $350 million World Bank loan that the upper legislative chamber refused to give consent to.
“May be we need to educate this aggrieved governor that this senate in three years already has the highest number of bills with relevance to improving the economy, eliminating insecurity and corruption since 1999, even though we still have 10 months to the end of our tenure,” he said in a statement.
“Similarly, we have treated more petitions than the number that all the past senate combined had done. Our interventions on key issues that affect the day to day living of Nigerians have remained unparalleled.”
 He wondered why the governor could attack the senate when he allegedly tried to lobby Senate President Bukola Saraki over the issue.
“El- Rufai is an aggrieved governor. He is pained by the rejection of his request for foreign loans by the Senate committee on foreign and local debt which is headed by a senator from Kaduna state, Shehu Sanni. The Governor has been speaking from both sides of the mouth,” the statement read.
“He had sent several persons to the senate president on this loan. I am aware that when he sent the current minister of finance to Dr. Saraki, the latter made it known that he too was helpless on the issue as there was no personal reason that will make him stand against such a request. The senate president advised the governor to reach out to the three senators from the state and get them to support the decision as he, the senate president, would find it difficult to overrule the senators, particularly since one of them is the chairman of the concerned committee. The three Senators from Kaduna state insisted that an approval for the loan would sentence Kaduna State to many years of indebtedness.
“For him to now be making this kind of nonsensical and reckless statements against the senate president shows that he is a double-faced, reckless and immature. People should ignore him. He is one of the people who destroyed APC up to the point that it is and President Buhari had better realised that with a supporter like el-Rufai, he does not need an opponent again.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment