Share this on WhatsApp




host Nigerian speakers conference in August

Ten months after the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Ajayi Obasa has announced the reconstitution of the hitherto dissolved standing committees of the House.


It would be recalled that the speaker announced the dissolution of the standing committees on Monday the 16th day of October 2017, leaving the committee chairmen in acting capacities, excluding Hon.Rotimi Olowo whose committee was given to Hon.Yishawu Gbolahan till date.

Some of the lawmakers who were not so favoured in the new arrangements were, Hon.Shola Giwa who chairs the Wealth Creation committee before, Hon.Desmond Elliot of Tourism Arts and Culture and Hon.Nurudeen Saka Solaja of the Science and Tech committee, as they were left without a committee chairmanship position.


Announcing the new committees during plenary on Tuesday,  Obasa revealed that while he heads the Selection Committee, the Chief Whip of the House, Hon. Rotimi Abiru would be the Chairman of the Ethics, protocol and privileges . The Majority Leader Hon.Sanai Agunbiade chairs Business Rules and standing order committee.

Other committee chairmen are Agriculture, Hon. Rasheed Makinde, Health Services, Hon. Akeem Shokunle, House Services, Hon. Fatai Oluwa, Local Government and Community Affairs, Hon. Rotimi Olowo, Environment, Hon. Dayo Saka-Fafunmi and Works and Infrastructure, Hon. Abiodun Tobun.

Also announced were, Public Accounts (Local), Hon. Bisi Yusuff, Public Accounts (State), Hon. Moshood Oshun, Budget and Economic Planning, Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu, Information and Strategy, Hon. Adefunmilayo Tejuosho,  Judiciary, LASIEC, Human Rights and Petition, Hon. Tunde Braimoh and Water Front Infrastructure, Hon. Dayo Famakinwa.

The rest are Establishment and Training, Hon. Mojisola Miranda, Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Hon. Mosunmola Sangodara, Commerce and Industry, Hon. Jude Idimogu, Central Business District, Hon. Oladele Adekanye, Education, Hon. Olanrewaju Ogunyemi, Wealth Creation, Hon. Raheem Kazeem , Tourism and Culture, Hon. Noheem Adams, and Housing, Hon. Ibrahim Layode.

Meanwhile, the Assembly has adjourned sitting to September, 17, 2018 as it went on annual recess, while it would host Conference of South West Speakers and Conference of Speakers of Nigeria in the first week of August, 2018.







Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment