Share this on WhatsApp



 
By Clarkson Ogo
No doubt Football is capital intensive and business oriented for the club owners to make profit.
But Nigeria and Delta/Edo State in particular find it difficult to flow with the prosperity in the game irrespective of the fact that soccer cannot complete without looking at these two states because of the gifted talent loaded there.
You maybe wondering why the nose dive flow of moment to Europe and other well paid and organized league. is as a result of ” The actors and their Bosses”.
Players:
Some of these players from these region are indiscipline, failing to adhere to camp ans rules of the game. some want to outsmart or betray their links,managers,helper or intermediary.
Club owners/Chairman or coaches:
Some persons who owe the above designated position allow their selfish interest overshadow the players career.
Imagine a coach want to be a players manager, intermediary and what have you at the same time.
What come to their mind first is the money not caring if the player went ahead to sign a slave contract.
Imagine a deal will come for a player who has been on ground suffering playing football with nothing to show for it but because the money involve for the player to move is not enough for them to make hundred of millions without considering the platform for the player to expose his talent and improve his career, they will choose to hold the player down.
It is a known fact that because of corruption and economic reasons most overseas clubs don’t want to deal with Nigeria Clubs or agents but prefer other Africa route.
But because some of these Africa countries are smaller to Nigeria they tend to pay our players a sum that is low even though is far higher than what they earn back in Nigeria to start.
Today, the class of Nigeria players playing in big time clubs is getting low .
One is not saying that player should be sold for peanuts rather they should think of the future to negotiate for reasonable percentage for the player as he move from one club to another.
Research have shown that clubs more than 95:percent of clubs in Nigeria don’t make profit for their Sponsors.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment