Share this on WhatsApp



 
Cristiano Ronaldo – Juventus & Portugal
For the third consecutive season, the winger was the top scorer in the Champions League as he hit 15 goals en route to Real Madrid’s third consecutive crown. Following his typical hot streak after the turn of the year, Ronaldo hit a memorable hat-trick against Spain at the World Cup and he now heads to Juventus with continuing these impressive numbers on his mind.
Lionel Messi – Barcelona & Argentina
With 45 goals in 54 matches, Messi claimed a crucial role in Barcelona’s domestic double that included a fifth LaLiga Pichichi award. Forever one of the most skilful men to play the game, the Argentine may be able to put woes on the Champions League and World Cup stage behind him to win.
Antoine Griezmann – Atletico Madrid & France
Recency bias cannot be ruled out in these awards and Griezmann really bloomed in the spring. Helping Atleti to the Europa League title served only as the prelude to a leading role in Russia, stepping up at decisive moments and taking home the Bronze Ball, off the back of four goals and three assists.
Luka Modric – Real Madrid & Croatia
2018 was perhaps the year Modric stepped out of his shell as an unsung hero and became fully appreciated as an integral orchestrator of the game for the European champions and the World Cup finalists. In addition, the midfielder’s ability to step up was shown with a world class goal against Argentina as he led Croatia to a dismantling of the former greats.
Raphael Varane – Real Madrid & France
It is important not to forget that Varane is still only 25. This summer saw the defender claim his third straight Champions League winners’ medal, partnering Sergio Ramos in defence, with another starting spot in France’s triumphant run in Russia. They don’t just hand out these honours to anyone, you know.
Kylian Mbappe – Paris Saint-Germain & France
Mbappe lived up to his starlet tag at PSG during the past campaign and hit 21 goals and won the domestic quadruple, but it was at the World Cup he stepped into next level territory. With four goals and a number of incredible moments of athleticism and skill, the 19-year-old won the Young Player of the Tournament gong.
 Harry Kane – Tottenham Hotspur & England
Nobody scored more goals than Harry Kane in the last calendar year and the England captain took that form into 2018 with aplomb. Smashing 56 goals in 2017, the Spurs man was handed the armband in Russia and led the Three Lions to the semi-finals with the Golden Boot won, to boot.
Eden Hazard – Chelsea & Belgium
The first of two Belgians on The Best shortlist, Hazard pushed through a difficult campaign with Chelsea to nonetheless secure 17 goals and 13 assists. Heading to Russia, the winger was determined to do something special and captained his side to third, their best-ever run at a World Cup.
Mo Salah – Liverpool & Egypt
Firmly in the same category as Ronaldo and Messi, Salah’s greatest exploits were largely achieved with his club. Named Premier League Player of the Year, the Egyptian was integral to Liverpool’s Champions League runners-up finish while his 32-goal haul broke the divisional record.
Kevin De Bruyne – Manchester City & Belgium
With 21 assists last year, De Bruyne was the ultimate playmaker in the ultimate playmaker’s team.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment