Share this on WhatsApp



The Nigeria Police have eventually accepted responsibility for the teargas attack on Government House, Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, on Wednesday, which caused momentary loss of consciousness by Governor Ayodele Fayose. The Deputy Inspector General of Police coordinating security operations for the Saturday governorship election in Ekiti, Habilal Joshak, admitted that the teargas fired at supporters and leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at a campaign rally was a mistake, appealing that the mistake will not be repeated.
DIG Habilal Joshak on the Ekiti State Broadcasting Corporation, Television Service in Ado-Ekiti, admitted the teargas attack on PDP supporters as a mistake, saying further:  “I want to assure the good people of Ekiti State that such mistake will never repeat itself.”
He declared: “What I said was that those massing for the rally should be asked to leave because it is not good going by the mood of the state now to hold rally or street procession. I didn’t say they should use force. This is an election, and electioneering is a civil matter anywhere across the globe. So, police as security agents can’t use force on the people.”
The DIG had earlier denied the teargas attack on PDP supporters, while, however, admitting that the Police will not allow any campaign rally to hold without Police permit. He, thereafter, said he would investigate the teargas attack and brief the public on his findings. The broadcast reflected the findings of the DIG in his investigation of the teargas incident.
The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, had on Thursday in Abuja, endorsed the Police violence on PDP supporters, citing that PDP did same thing during the period it was in power. Oshiomhole further attacked Fayose of being afraid of the violent process he benefited from in the past.
The DIG admission of the Police attack in error, puts a shame on the |APC leaders who have demonstrated unwieldy desperation to win elections in Nigeria, setting Ekiti governorship election as stepping stone.
Governor Fayose has been on neck brace, since he suffered teargas attack and subsequent assault by the Police who slapped and hit him with their guns. He has been receiving medical attention at the government House Clinic, Ado-Ekiti.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment