Share this on WhatsApp











The Ekiti State Police Command, on Wednesday, refuted the report that the government house, Ado-Ekiti was invaded by security operatives, including the Police, deployed to the state for the Saturday, July 14, 2018, governorship election.
The invasion report had insinuated that the Government House was struck with teargas canister which led to Governor Ayodele Fayose losing his consciousness momentarily and was rushed to the Government House Clinic where he was revived by doctors.
The Ekiti State Police Command in a statement in Ado-Ekiti on Wednesday by DSP Caleb Ikechukwu, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), on behalf of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Election Coordinator, Ekiti State Command, Ado-Ekiti, noted that the report: “The Police have invaded Ekiti State Government House” was misleading.
The Police, therefore, urged members of the public to consider the content of the message as misleading and aimed at causing cruelty in the minds of Ekiti citizens.
The Command explained that, “in furtherance to the presence of Police officers around the Professor Olusola Eleka pavilion at Fajuyi on Wednesday, 11st July, 2018, two political parties intend to have their rally at the same date and in Ado-Ekiti metropolis but the Commissioner of Police advised the political parties in writing on the need to have their political activity at different time and because of tis security implication.”
The Command assured that the Police will at all-time continue to maintain law and order and also rise up to its responsibility to perform its mandatory and statutory duty of protection of lives and property of innocent citizens in the State before, during and after the election.
“The Police would also want to use this medium to alert the general public that they should expect more of these misleading information from person(s) who do not mean well to the good people of Ekiti State.
“The Police enjoin the general public to confirm the source of their information before circulating same to their friends or loved ones,” the statement declared.
The Police Command, thereafter, solicited the support of Ekiti citizens in giving useful and timely information to the Police and other security agencies or call the Command emergency phone numbers 08062335577, 08068223499 and 07012221175.
The command appealed to the people to ensure adequate dissemination of this information.

















Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment