Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Director General of the Atiku Abubakar Presidential Campaign Organization and former Governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, OGD, at a media interaction in Lagos, decried the level of insecurity and political violence in Nigeria under the government of the All Progressives Congress (APC).  The former Ogun State Governor lamented that despite the hunger in the land,  Nigeria  is experiencing significant blood shed of innocent people which is threatening national security, unity and businesses such that unemployment is increasing daily.
The Atiku Campaign DG appealed to Nigerians to utilize their votes wisely for true change in the country, advocating that the time has come to redeem Nigeria from seeming turmoil where security of life and property is no longer guaranteed.
The former governor explained that he decided to give his support to Atiku Abubakar after looking at his credentials, versatility and experience which has proven that he has what it takes to save the country from anarchy and doom. 
Gbenga Daniel had declared: “Atiku is versatile with experience and well spread tentacles. He understands Nigeria and widely exposed and he is head above all other aspirants for the 2019 presidential election.
“He has wide network of people and above all understands the new world economy which has the ability to attract Foreign Direct Investments (FDI).”
Daniel remarked that Atiku Abubakar heard the cry of Nigerians who now feel betrayed for voting the present administration because they erroneously believed in their campaign gimmick, and has offered to help produce a leader with genuine interest of the people at heart. 
“When you consider his status, Atiku is rich and has no business stealing money; he was vice president and since he left government nobody has come up with a corruption charge against him; also he left the Customs a juicy job voluntarily and has not been accused of stealing. So, such a person is the only one that can genuinely fight corruption and enthrone good governance,” Daniel declared. He reiterated that Nigerians should rise to the challenge of making a change that will impact lives and businesses so that Nigeria will be safe for everyone.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment