Share this on WhatsApp



Wants cause of bruises, blood stains investigated

The family of Pa Olapade Adedokun has petitioned the Nigeria Police to unravel the mystery behind the death of wife of former member of the House of Representatives, Honourable Sikiru Olayemi Busari.

The family said the bruises as well as blood stains on the corpse made it hard for them to believe that Mrs. Oluwakemi Busari died in her sleep at Honourable Busari’s house at Aerodrome, Samonda, Ibadan, in the morning of June 30, as claimed by the husband.

In a petition to the Oyo State Commissioner of Police and the State Criminal Investigation Department, signed by their counsel, Martin Omokude of Human Rights Herald, the Adedokuns said the police should investigate the cause of the death and bring the perpetrators to book.

According to Omokude, family of the deceased said the husband did not contact any of them nor take the woman to the hospital immediately he purportedly found her dead.

“The extended family member, Abass Taiwo, that the husband called about the incident arrived the house the Honourable lives with his family around noon to see a waiting ambulance ready to convey the corpse to the morgue.




“The former legislator was also said to have procured a death certificate indicating she died of cardiac arrest,” he said.
He added that the family said the corpse was covered in a blanket and laid on her side in one corner of the bed until around 7p.m. when another ambulance took it to the morgue of Molly Specialist Hospital in Ibadan, where the mortuary attendant noticed the bruises and fresh cuts in many parts of the body with blood dripping.
Honourable Busari had told an online newspaper, PM Parrot, that his wife woke him earlier in the morning to attend the landlords’ association meeting and when he returned in company of friends, he asked the children to go fetch their mother to entertain the guests before her lifeless body was discovered.
The family has now said it will be irresponsible of them to keep silent over what they described as an “obvious foul play” in the cause of their daughter’s death as the husband has now been making efforts to bury the corpse this Friday.
Honourable Busari represented the Egbada/Ona-Ara Constituency in the National Assembly between 2011 and 2015 on the platform of Accord Party and his loyalists are presently campaigning on the social media for his return to the House in 2019 on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP).
The body has since been moved to the Pathology Department of the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan for autopsy under the supervision of Dr. ABU Okolo.
 The DPO of Sango Police station, Joyce Maiyaki, has led her men to Busari’s house today where they took  some exhibits, including the pillows, a bed sheet and a blanket, all stained with blood, before inspecting the corpse at the UCH where several photographs were taken.

Oluwakemi, aged 48, left behind aged parents and five children and was popularly called Mama Oloye by her husband’s supporters.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment