Share this on WhatsApp







Another tragedy was recorded in Lagos on in Friday after the petrol tankers explosion that killed over 12 persons and burnt over 50 vehicles on Otedola Bridge, a fortnight ago. This time an inter-city commercial train railed into a commercial bus, crushing it to rubble at the Pen Cinema, Agege railway crossing, Lagos State, leading to death three persons and many others injured.
National Daily gathered that the bus driver was making make U-turn on the rail line but ran out of luck as the train was approaching the terminal on close range, this was said to cause the accident that led to the tragedy. The driver was said to have been warned by passerby but he ignored their warnings.
Some eye witnesses were said to have narrated: “We warned the driver not to make U-turn at that particular point when a train was approaching but he refused.
“So, it was in the process of making the turn that the approaching train crushed the bus where people hanging on the train fell off and three die instantly while other sustained various injuries.”
Angry youths were said to have burnt the wreckage of the bus while injured persons were taken to a nearby hospital.
The Nigerian Railway Corporation, Lagos District Manager Mr. Jerry Oche, was gathered to have confirmed the accident, noting that it occurred at 9.30am.
“We were informed that a bus was trying to make a U-turn at the railway line this morning at Agege Pen Cinema area when a moving train crushed it in the process.
“The police are on top of the incident bringing the situation to normalcy as youths went on rampage over the death of people who lost their lives in the accident.
“The information given to us by the police was that a number of people hanging on the train were affected where two people died while many others sustained injuries,” Mr. Oche said.
The Public Information Officer, National Emergency Management Authority (NEMA), Lagos Office, Mr. Ibrahim Farinloye, also confirmed that the injured had been taken to the hospital.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment