Share this on WhatsApp



The Counsel to the NFF president, Amaju Pinnick and that of the board, Festus Keyamo, has replied the Sports Minister, Solomon Dalung, who claimed yesterday on a  WhatsApp platform that the NFF refused to act  on an order served them until it was too late to remedy.
Keyamo, in a swift reaction to what he classified as a false claim by the Honourable  Minister, said he nor his clients never received any order, a situation the minister and his cohorts capitalised on to go ahead to obtain an exparte motion.
“How could we challenge it when we never had a knowledge of it.
“The man is a pathological liar.
The Motion challenging jurisdiction based on FIFA Statutes that recognizes only CAS has been pending since 2014, but they have only been interested in getting exparte orders since then.
“So, why did he not send a lawyer to court last Wednesday?  And when he was served the Order early, why did he not draw the attention of Pinnick’s Board to it until implementation stage”? Keyamo queried.
He added: “They moved exparte on the 5th. We did not know. We were in court on the 6th. The court never mentioned it.
They kept everything clandestine because they didn’t want any challenge to it until implementation stage.
“In order words, Solomon Dalung was working hand-in-gloves with Chris Giwa all along because they’re both from Plateau State,” Keyamo said.
Dalung Reacts:
I will not disparage the personality of the SAN but it’s a fact that he gave the issue little attention. Calling me names is below the required etiquette of a decent a SAN.
I don’t know whether things have changed but know as a fact that SAN do not behave like this. He should give his brief and client more attention instead of blaming it on Dalung. When he won at the Court of Appeal, Dalung was not yet a plateau man.
The CJN who delivered the lead judgment is from plateau, Keyamo may soon say that. I believe that Keyamo will also call Justice Kurya of the Federal High Court Jos a plateau man. A lazy workman blame his tools. A good lawyer talks more in court and not public domain but a bad lawyer  is excellent at crying blue murder.
Mr SAN, just do your job by protecting the interest of your client instead of media legal drama. We are looking up to you SAN for good leadership. If these are the angels then hell is empty while the devils are here with us.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment