Share this on WhatsApp







 
The leader of the Take It Back Movement and presidential aspirant, Omoyele Sowore has described the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the main opposition party, Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) as two sides of the same bad coin.

In a statement signed by TIB’s Director of PR & Media, Rachel Onamusi-Kpiasi, Sowore said the same insecurity rocking the country now was used as one of APC’s campaign slogans against the PDP in 2015, yet nothing has changed as cultism, robbery, and killings by alleged herdsmen have taken frightening dimensions, with all security agencies seemingly unable to stem the tide.

He said while the country mourned the killing of over a hundred citizens in nearby Plateau state by suspected herdsmen, President Buhari and other leaders of the APC were dancing away in Abuja at the party’s convention.

“It is sad that our country has come to the level where the governing party does not deem it fit to suspend activities when news reached them that over a hundred Nigerians had been killed.”

He said President Buhari must own up to his failure and stop shifting the blame for the pervasive insecurity Nigerians are currently experiencing. “It is the position of Omoyele Sowore and the TiB Movement that it is unconscionable for the president to shirk his responsibility to guarantee the safety of Nigerians.”

“Rather than giving the security and law enforcement agencies the marching order to restore the peace and enforce Nigeria’s laws, we have the ridiculous position of our Executive President blaming external forces and his political opponents for the inadequacies of his government to perform their statutory duties.”

“Not since the end of the Civil War have our people felt as apprehensive as they feel today. There is pervading insecurity in the country, and the government appears to be incapable to stop it.”

According to Sowore, the insensitivity of the Buhari administration to the killings is not only callous and unpardonable, but that posterity will register it as one of the lowest points of a maladministration that has inflicted so much pain on its citizens.

He also took a swipe at federal lawmakers, who he said have failed to carry out their oversight role. “Were our legislators to be up to their responsibilities, the president should have been called to, at the very least, explain why he allowed things to degenerate to these abysmal levels.”












Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment