Share this on WhatsApp



President Muhammadu Buharihas denied the report that he met with Pastor Tunde Bakare and Finance Minister, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun at the State House, Abuja, on Friday.
There were reports that Bakare and Adeosun met with Buhari on the issue of the alleged fake NYSC exemption certificate issued the Finance Minister 10 years after he graduated from the university.
The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, in a statement, highlighted how Adeosun met Bakare at the State House on Friday.
 “Far from the truth; the Minister was at the Presidential Villa in connection with the Annual General Meeting and 25th Anniversary Celebration of African Export-Import Bank (AFREXIMBANK) holding Saturday in Abuja, which would be graced by President Buhari.
“She ran into Pastor Bakare, who was on a scheduled visit to see the President, and they exchanged pleasantries. The cleric particularly thanked the Minister for finding time to attend his mother’s funeral, which took place in Abeokuta, Ogun State, penultimate weekend.
“Mrs. Adeosun had seen President Buhari not fewer than three times earlier in the week, and did not need to meet with him again on Friday.
“This statement is to put events in proper perspective, and dispel all conjectures and fictive reporting,” Adesina declared.
The controversy over the fake NYSC exemption certificate alleged to be obtained by the Finance Minister would have denting effect on the image of the All Progressives Congress (APC) government and the Buhari administration if compromised by the president. The Act establishing NYSC made the one year scheme mandatory for graduates with B.Sc or HND without which such person would not be offered employment in government. Appointing Adeosun Commissioner for finance in Ogun State by Governor Ibikunle Amosun; thereafter, Finance Minister by President Buhari would be huge indictment on perjury and corruption on the respective leaders and their political parties.
Salisu Buhari was Speaker of the House of Representatives in 1999 on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). When indicted of certificate forgery, he did not only resign, he vacated the national Assembly immediately, even without sanction from the authorities.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment