Share this on WhatsApp



 
Belgium manager Roberto Martinez has told Chelsea forward Eden Hazard, 27, he must consider a move away from Stamford Bridge, amid interest from Real Madrid . (Mirror)
But new Chelsea boss Maurizio Sarri hopes to hold on to key quartet of Belgium forward Eden Hazard, Belgium goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois, Brazil midfielder Willian and France midfielder N’Golo Kante, after their heroics at the World Cup. (Sun)
Manchester United are set to miss out on Gareth Bale, with the 29-year-old Wales forward expected to be told he is key to new Real Madrid manager Julen Lopetegui’s plans. (Metro)
Manchester City are unwilling to meet
Real Madrid’s £80m valuation of 24-year-old Croatia midfielder Mateo Kovacic.
(Sky Sports)
Chelsea are discussing a £53m move for
Juventus and Argentina striker Gonzalo Higuain, 30. (Evening Standard)
‘
Newcastle and Celtic are interested in Uruguay midfielder Giorgian de Arrascaeta, 24, who is valued at £18m by
Cruzeiro. (Sun)
Inter Milan winger Ivan Perisic, 29, and 24-year-old Eintracht Frankfurt winger Ante Rebic are targets for Manchester United following their performances for Croatia at the World Cup in Russia.
(ESPN)
Tottenham forward Son Heung-min is set to miss the first four games of the Premier League season after being called up to the South Korea squad for the Asian Games. (Mirror)
Manchester City’s England defender John Stones will dismiss worries about World Cup fatigue and be ready for his club’s meeting with Chelsea in the Community Shield. (Manchester Evening News)
Liverpool defenders Joel Matip and Joe Gomez could capitalise on team-mate Dejan Lovren’s World Cup exploits and partner Virgil van Dijk while the Croatia international is given time to rest.
(Liverpool Echo)
Monaco have made an offer to CSKA Moscow for 22-year-old Russia midfielder Aleksandr Golovin, who has also been linked with a £22m move to
Chelsea. (Sport Express – in Russian)
Southampton have distanced themselves from reports they want Liverpool’s 25-year-old English forward Danny Ings.
(Daily Echo)
New Arsenal manager Unai Emery is preparing to trim his squad – and the futures of England striker Danny Welbeck, 27, and Colombian goalkeeper David Ospina, 29, are in doubt. (Telegraph)
Crystal Palace winger Wilfried Zaha is “going nowhere for four years” according to manager Roy Hodgson. The 25-year-old Ivory Coast international is a target for Everton, Tottenham and Borussia Dortmund . (Liverpool Echo)
Leicester’s Nigerian forward Ahmed Musa, 25, is being widely linked with a £40m move to Saudi Arabian club Al Nassr. (Leicester Mercury)
Fenerbahce have made Tottenham and Belgium midfielder Mousa Dembele, 31, a target as they look to further strengthen their squad. (Fanatik, via 90min)
Newcastle’s English defender Jamaal Lascelles, 24, has no intention of leaving amid interest from other Premier League clubs. (Times – subscription required)
Lyon and France midfielder Nabil Fekir, 24, has dropped a hint a move to
Liverpool is still possible. (Metro)
Real Sociedad president Jokin Aperribay has played down links with Arsenal’s Spanish full-back Nacho Monreal, 32.
(Mundo Deportivo, via Football London)
Derby are close to signing England youth midfielder Mason Mount, 19, on a season-long loan deal from Chelsea.
(Telegraph)
Fulham have made a £1.3m bid for
Espanyol’s Spanish goalkeeper Roberto Jimenez, 32. (Lacontra Deportivo – in Spanish)
Chelsea have agreed a deal to sell Ivory Coast midfielder Jeremie Boga, 21, to Italian club Sassuolo for £3.5m. (Goal)
Former Southampton captain Jose Fonte, 34 is without a club as the Portugal defender’s contract at Chinese outfit
Dalian Yifang was terminated early. (Daily Echo)
Atletico Madrid have almost completed the signing of AC Milan and Croatia striker Nikola Kalinic, 30. (Marca – via Football Italia)
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment