Share this on WhatsApp




The senate has confirmed Musiliu Smith, a former inspector-general of police, as chairman of the Police Service Commission (PSC).
Smith will take over from Mike Okiro, also a former inspector-general of police.
Buhari had appointed Smith in May in addition to Clara Ogunbiyi (full-time commissioner), north-east; Lawal Bawa (full-time commissioner), north-west; Mohammed Najatu (member) north-west, Briamoh Austin (member), south-south; Rommy Mom (member), north-central; and Nkemeka Jombo-Ofo (member), south-east; as members of the police commission board.
The upper legislative chamber confirmed the nominees after Abu Ibrahim, the senate chairman of police affairs presented a report to the lawmakers for consideration.
Ibrahim said the nominees met all the nominees met the necessary requirements.
Saraki urged the appointees to help the police carry out the needed reforms with their ranks.
“First, let me congratulate the new members of the Police Service Commission and at the same time, commend the quality of the nominees that have been brought forward by Mr. President,” Saraki said.
“This gives us hope and encouragement that all our efforts to see that this critical aspect of our security architecture receives the necessary reform. We wish all the members the best of luck in their new role. Before this nomination, they have had a lot of expectations from Nigerians. This is why we ensured that we fast-tracked this nomination.
“A lot of people are expecting that the capacity of the individuals on the Police Service Commission will support the police to carry out the necessary reform that is required, particularly in ensuring that we drive a performance driven police force.”

Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed Muiz Banire, a senior advocate of Nigeria (SAN), as chairman of the governing board of the Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON).

Banire is the former legal adviser of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment