Share this on WhatsApp



Our attention as stakeholders of the beautiful game and promoters of the beautiful game, have been drawn to allegations, that Super Eagles coach, Salisu Yusuf, was caught in a web of bribery, an allegation that bothers seriously on his integrity as National team coach,National Daily gathered.
The story from the BBC came to us as rude shock even as we will appeal for caution and maturity from all stakeholders as there are always two sides to a coin.
We must first listen to Salisu’s defense but unfortunately, the former Kano Pillars chief coach is presenty in a London hospital undergoing treatment.
We however find this allegation difficult to believe knowing that the Nigeria football federation has done so well in recent times, to ensure National team coaches get the best of treatment as all their entitlements are fully and duly paid.
It is therefore a travesty to imagine that a coach that is earning almost 4million naira monthly, made over 80,000 US dollars from bonuses during the world cup alone, gets close to 20,000 US dollars as winning bonus, gets first class treatment on every National assignments, will condescend so low to accept 1000 dollars bribe from some unknown persons.
We will on our part, appeal to the NFF to put in place internal investigative mechanism or refer him straight to the NFF Ethics committee headed by Alhaji Nuhu Ribadu and if found guilty,, he must be told to resign honorably or relieved of his appointment as National team coach.
The current NFF board under Amaju Melvin Pinnick have shown their love for local coaches but unfortunate  occurence like this one will go a long way to further put a dent on the credential of the Nigerian coaches, many of whom have come under severe criticism in the past over serious allegations that brothers on their integrity
As stakeholders, we will not condone any act of corruption from any coach or administrator as such, is totally against the anti corruption campaign of the present APC government of president Mohammadu Buhari.
We will give Salisu the benefits of the doubt pending further investigation but where he is found guilty we may have no choice but to demand that the NFF follow the part of honour by asking him to resign with immediate effect .
Salisu, was accused of collecting 1000 US dollars from an unknown agent to field Kano Pillars Rabiu Ali and Osas Okoro of Rangers internatiional during the CHAN tournament and has since conceded to the allegation, claiming he collected the said money as a gift, not a bribe.
He said when they came to discuss the proposal with him he told them there was no need as both players were key first team members.
He however claimed that he collected 1000 US dollars from thesame agents afterwards as a gift, not as  bribe because the money was given after the game has been played.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment