Share this on WhatsApp



 
An ex-female football international, Amarachi Assumpta Egeonu  has revealed why he established a football academy in Nigeria.
National Daily learnt that the former Confluence Queen of Lokoja player said this at the weekend while speaking with journalists in Lagos on her plan for the academy known as Al Ethihad Sports Academy.
Amarachi, who is also a football coach, said God has blessed Nigeria with many talented footballers, which she needs to discover through the establishment of a football academy.
The Imo state born footballer from Isiala Mbano LGA  noted that another purpose of setting up the academy is to help the young footballers to get easy access to continue their football career in various European clubs.
She also revealed that the football academy would soon partner with Al-Ethihad Sports Academy in Abu Dhabi.
“There are talents abound in this country, mostly our female footballers don’t get the needed encouragement and support they deserve, that’s what informed this project.
“I use my experience in both my playing and coaching career to help the players to achieve their dream. I don’t want any players to go through what I went through in life.
“My story from the beginning of my life, from Oladimeji Tigress to Cerezo Queens, Lome in Togo where I played for Athlanta FC, I went to Ghana before I came back to Nigeria to play Kogi Confluence in 2011/2012 before I moved to Abu Dhabi  and I played for Al-whada FC.
“I also played for Al-Admission, first division in Dubai where I did my coaching course. I have helped many Nigerian players, including Precious Dede, I helped her to secure a professional contract in abroad,” she said.
She however said that her academy, Al Ethihad is open to U-10, U-13, and U-16 lads where they groom them to become great footballers in nearest future.
According to her the academy, which based in Lagos has been registered with Corporate Affairs Commission, CAC is ready accommodate players through collection of forms, which is available throughout the country.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment