Share this on WhatsApp



Two major power blocs in the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Kaduna State – Akida and Restoration – on Friday, revealed their intention to quit the ruling party. National Daily learnt that Senator Shehu Sani, representing Kaduna Central APC in the National Assembly; and Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi, representing Kaduna North APC in the National Assembly belong to the groups. Also leading the bloc is Tijjani Ramalan, owner of Liberty Radio and Television stations, Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, and others.
Matamaiki Tom-Maiyashi, Chairman of the Akida group, announcing the decision of the two political blocs at a press conference in Kaduna, explained that they are quitting the party  because the ruling APC was not ready to accommodate alternative opinions or allow democracy to take its course in the conduct of party affairs.
Tom-Maiyashi had declared: “this joint Press Conference is the culmination of extensive reviews and consultations over the state of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna State as well as in the nation.
“As you will appreciate, groups such as ours that had been part of the efforts to keep our Party along the lines of survival, accountability and integrity will be diligent in ensuring that whatever steps we take are consistent with our high sense of responsibility.
“We are satisfied that the positions we have arrived at are in the best interests of our members and the ongoing-efforts to create options and strategies that will rid our nation of undeserved and avoidable challenges.
“Members of our two groups have decided to leave the APC because it is incapable of accommodating and responding to well-meaning dissent, criticism and demands for inclusiveness and internal democracy.”
Chairman of the Akida bloc was of the view that the ruling APC has failed the millions of people who labored to put it and who expected genuine change.
However, the two blocs are yet to identify with any other political party. The chairman, however, revealed that negotiations are ongoing for a new alliance.
“We are hereby advising all our teeming members to formalize their withdrawal from the APC.
“We are engaged in serious discussions with parties which share our values and principles towards political collaboration that best suits our interests, and in due course, we will make public the outcome of these discussions.
“We want to commend the resilience and commitment of our members in the face of institutionalized exclusion, marginalization and abuse. We urge them all to keep faith,” he said.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment