Share this on WhatsApp

As Ekiti gets best  NECO results




Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State has scored a major development point in education, leading to the state emerging with the best results in National Examinations Council (NECO) Examination conducted in 2017.

National Daily gathered that education policies  of the Fayose administration in Ekiti State to re-position the education sector  yielded positive results making the state retain her first position in the NECO Examinations.
A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Idowu Adelusi, indicated that Governor Fayose made the disclosure at a meeting with retirees at the Government House.
Ekiti State came first among the 36 states of the Federation in same NECO examinations conducted in 2016.
“Our efforts in the education sector are yielding positive results, we have retained our first and leading position in this year’s NECO examinations. Last year we came first and we have done it again.
“I am promising the people of the state that we are going to maintain that leading position throughout my tenure and it will continue by the grace of God when my deputy, Prof. Kolapo Olusola-Eleka takes over from me.
Governor Fayose had declared: “Apart from being diligent, he is the one supervising the education sector and I am proud of his commitment to duty and I am assuring you that with him in the saddle, things would get better.
“When I first came to office in 2003, the sector was in bad shape and we organised the first Education Summit and we moved from number 34 in the federation to seven and first in the South-West. I came back again to meet it in a bad state and we took some steps and here we are.
“Last year when we came first, some critics who would not see anything good in other people said we reaped from what our predecessor left. Now we have proved them wrong.
“We are the first when it comes to the motivation of teachers and assisting them with teaching aids and materials. No state celebrates teachers like we do during the annual Teachers’ Day.”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment