Share this on WhatsApp

By Chioma Obinagwam

BudgIT Nigeria, a  civic   tech   organisation,   expresses   disappointment   at   the   silence   of   the Honourable Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun, over the allegations of the National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) certificate fraud.

In   an   investigative   report   released   by   Premium   Times,   Ms.   Kemi   Adeosun   was   accused   of skipping   the   compulsory   one-year   national   youth   service  and   presenting   forged  exemption certification to the National Assembly.

While many concerned citizens await a comprehensive response from the government official, the civic organization noted that there has been no rebuttal from the accused and also no conclusive position from the National Youth Service Corps.

“We also notice recent reports that the Honourable Minister released N10 billion for the National Assembly   to   settle   liabilities,   a   fund   that   ended   up   in   purchase   of   exotic   vehicles   for   the legislators,” BudgIT indicated.

 “As an organization with interest in transparency and accountability, we believe it is dangerous   to   put   public   funds   in   charge   of   a   person   that   can   be   easily   blackmailed   by individuals. We also accept that towards the 2019 elections, Nigeria needs the right character to lead its Finance Ministry, considering how public treasury can be easily shortened to satisfy political interests,” it argued.

BudgIT also said that the Buhari Administration has often  opined its commitments to weed out corruption and other related vices but it finds the silence in antithesis to such dispositiaffirmed
“We find the certificate saga an indictment on the capability of the Ogun State House of Assembly, Department of state security,   National   Assembly   and   National   Youth   Service   Corps.   We   affirm   that   Nigerian institutions   are   being   compromised   on   the   altar   of   political   expediency   and   the   ‘Change’ mantra as advanced by the current governing party is gradually a trite phrase,” BudgIT noted.

“The current issue is an example of gross misconduct within the cabinet of an administration that prides itself on integrity. We call on President Buhari to take appropriate action regarding this and   also   for   the   Honourable   Minister   to   provide   a   response   to   the   allegations.   Without   a convincing response to this ignoble situation, we call on Ms. Kemi Adeosun to resign from her position as the Honourable Minister of Finance of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and accept the consequences of her actions as stated in the law,” it continued.

The civic organization affirm that Ms. Kemi Adeosun poses a risk to the treasury with alleged unauthentic documents which she has used to function as the Ogun State Commissioner of Finance and Honourable Minister of Finance.

“BudgIT looks forward to expedited resolution of this matter,” it stated.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment