Share this on WhatsApp



ri
His excellency Sir,
Permit me sir to use this medium to draw your attention to the lingering crisis threatening to throw our football into perpetual oblivion and in the process, further compounding the woes of the Nigerian youths.
Over 20million Nigerian youths are currently unemployed, over 2milliiion more are currently undergoing the compulsory National youth service, while another 10million or more are in various tertiary institutions unaware of what the future holds for them.
There are also those whose parents cannot afford to pay them through school, that have decided to try their hands in other volition.
Among these groups are the over 10million Nigerian youths both male and female,  who live daily from the little they make from football.
In these group are amateur players struggling for recognition and fame, the over 10,000 players presently in the Nationwide league in Nigeria, another 6,000 or more in the Nigeria National league and just less than that number in the Nigeria professional football league.
Added to these numbers,  are thousands of Nigerian young players plying their trade in the  various football leagues around the world.
From Europe to Asia, South America and the America’s, countless talents abound, struggling daily to make ends meet.
Eighty percent of these youths are bread winners with nuclear and extended families to cater for. There are also those in academies home and abroad, on whose shoulders lies the hopes of an entire family.
This is the story of where we are today as more and more youths drop out of school to find joy in their passion and seek a future where they can find one.
On Tuesday, France president, Emmanuel Macron was pictured among top delegates who watched France defeat Belgium to qualify for the final of the 2018 FIFA World cup.
The entire world sit daily to savour the excitement of the FIFA world cup from their living rooms and that perhaps explains the relative peace in some very volatile parts of the world including Nigeria, as more and more youths have found peace with football.
Unfortunately, all that is about to stop now, as the leadership tussle in Nigeria football could incur the wrath of FIFA and throw our football into a state of anarchy, confusion and commotion.
A case that started at the federal high court, went through to the Supreme court and has returned to the federal high court as the judiciary continue to gamble with the only thing that gives Nigerians joy in the midst of all the uncertainties of our National life.
The danger there, is that, the world football governing body, FIFA is abreast of happenings within and is wielding the big harmer which may come in the form of a ban, that could destroy Nigeria football from its foundation and render over 10million Nigerian youths jobless.
The IMPLICATION
It means that our streets will be littered with more jobless youths and that leaves Nigeria in danger of increased crime rate, insurgency and kidnapping perpetuated by jobless and hungry Nigerian youths who have watch their dreams cut short because of the selfish ambitions of a set of administrators desperate to take charge of Nigeria football.
Sir, permit me to appeal through this medium, that you quickly call the honourable sports minister, Solomon Dalung  to order because only him can find an amicable solution to this crisis.
The Nigerian youth, male  and female, are not concerned with what happens at the top, all they crave is playing football and making a living from it.
Mr president sir, you can save Nigerians especially lovers of football this impending doom by quickly taking a stance on the matter before it gets totally out of hands.
If it does get out of hand Sir, the Flying Eagles team, comprising of 25 players and officials scheduled to depart for Mauritania ahead of a crucial Under 20 Nations cup qualifier will be the first casualty, followed by  the Falconets who have a  date in August to participate at the Under- 20 FIFA women’s world cup. Let’s not also forget the Under-15 male team, currently in camp, preparing for the Africa youth games taking place in Algiers.
There is also the Super Eagles Nations cup qualifier taking place later in the year, the Super Falcons participation at the Africa women’s championship  and five times world champions, the Golden Eaglets, scheduled to take part in the Africa Under 17 qualifier in Ghana.
These dreams will turn a mirage as these innocent youths will watch their hopes shattered because of the selfishness of a group of desperate administrators.
Sir, the time to act is now!  Nigerians will not forgive your government, if you allow this nonsense drag on and lead to an unbearable crisis.
We expect your prompt reaction sir.
ADEWALE AJAYI
FLYING EAGLES MEDIA OFFICER (in diaspora)
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment