Vice President Yemi Osinbajo will today Monday 9 begins showcasing to the world Nigeria progress and strides in the country’s technology, innovation and creative space by Nigerian technology start-ups and entertainment industry practitioners at the Silicon Valley in San Francisco and Hollywood in Los Angeles, California.
The investment roadshow which ends Wednesday, July 11 will see Osinbajo speaking to global industry leaders in information technology and entertainment on a number of the Buhari administration’s policies such as the Ease of Doing Business reforms, which have improved the country’s ranking in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Index 2017.
Prof. Osinbajo would be joined on the investment roadshow by members of the recently inaugurated Advisory Group on Technology and Creativity – an integral part of the National Industrial Policy & Competitiveness Advisory Council – primarily to showcase the continued improvement in Nigeria’s business environment to entrepreneurs, investors and business leaders in both American cities.
During the US trip, the Vice President will also visit the Headquarters of some leading global technology companies. There will also be sessions with investors, Fund Managers and large US technology companies, as well as presentations by the Nigeria Investment Promotion Council (NIPC), the Bank of Industry (BOI), and the Enabling Business Environment Secretariat.
It would be recalled that in recognition of the central role of innovation and technology in the Federal Government’s Economic Recovery & Growth Plan, the Vice President has spoken extensively about the commitment of Government to supporting the growth of technology and creative industries in the country through its policies and reforms.
Also, during the trip, some leading Nigerian start-ups will be making pitches about their ideas and products so as to promote investment by US companies in Nigeria’s technology and creativity sector.
It would also focus on collaboration between Nigerian and US companies in the areas of technology and entertainment, including further cooperation between Nigeria’s film industry, Nollywood, and US Hollywood in the areas of production, distribution and content protection.
Another objective of the investment mission is to attract Africans in the Diaspora to mentor and support start-ups in Nigeria.
Accompanying the Vice President during the trip would be the Honourable Minister for Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr. Okey Enelamah; Special Adviser to the President on Economic Affairs, Dr. Adeyemi Dipeolu; senior government officials from the Nigeria Investment Promotion Council, Nigeria Export Promotion Council Ease of Doing Business Secretariat among others.





















			
			Post Views: 
			231