Share this on WhatsApp



Conferees at the simulation of the UN General Assembly First Committee on Disarmament and International Security (DISEC), during the second Babcock International Model United Nations (BIMUN) have traced growing cases of cyber security to criminal intents in the application of information technology.
The experts who made the observations in collaboration with the United Nations Information Centre (UNIC), urged member states to pay more attention to cyber security and broaden its definition beyond hacking to enhance implementation of broader solutions.
Chairman of the Committee, Jewel Ike-Obioha who led discussion on ‘Cyber Security and Protecting Against Cyber Warfare’ noted that misuse of information technology had left a devastating global effect on member states economically and posed a huge threat to global peace and security.
He said “Cyberspace security and information should be strictly monitored through effective cyber laws within member states,” noting that time has come for “the endorsement of block chain innovation into cyber security in decentralisation of information storage and introduces cyber security as a course in tertiary institutions”.
Earlier in his plenary speech, Director of UNIC, Ronald Kayanja, urged the delegates to seize the opportunity of the Model UN to think beyond their immediate environment and focus on global issues, which countries grapple with daily. “I am hopeful that after this experience you will become truly global citizens who seek to solve problems faced by the wider humanity.”
He revealed that “The General Assembly Is a forum for deliberation among governments of member states and provides collective legitimisation of norms, rules and actions. It also provides oversight function for the UN system. It is a forum where all member states are treated as equals, providing an opportunity for all views and concerns to be expressed.
“This is probably our last chance to provide lives of dignity to our people without compromising the ability of succeeding generations to be assured of decent livelihoods. The Agenda 2030 and the sustainable development goals constitute a framework to save humanity and the planet we all call home. We must all take this framework very seriously,” the NUIC chief said
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment