Share this on WhatsApp






Worried by past interservice rivalries and the need to ensure that such ugly trend does not recur, the Nigerian Army and other security agencies have met in Lagos in a relaxed atmosphere to cement relationships.
Speaking during the maiden mMulti- Agency Solidarity Launch at the Officers Mess, Victoria Island, Lagos on Thursday, the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division, Maj Gen. Enobong Udoh said the time has come to accept one another as brothers and sisters considering that what brought everybody together is the security of the country.
We must henceforth shun all acts of Inter-Service/Inter-Agency rivalries, wranglings, bickerings, animosities, brawls and violent confrontations.
He said that the press and social media had been awash with stories of how lower ranks engage one another in physical combats, adding that these platform would change the story for a better one.
“We are declaring zero tolerance for all acts of Inter-Service/Inter-Agency rivalries, wranglings, bickerings, animosities, brawls and violent confrontations.
“Especially in the short term, we may not be able to guarantee that such isolated issues will no longer arise, but if and when they do arise, we must ensure that such issues are expeditiously investigated.
“Anyone found culpable is tried and punished adequately to serve as a deterrent to similar occurrences in the future,” he said.
The GOC said all security agencies would continue to preach this epistle of brotherhood, friendship, synergy, cooperation and collaboration with one another, adding that the issues that had for too long constituted themselves as the bane of good inter-service/inter-agency relations would naturally fizzle out.
“I implore all of us to hurriedly take this message of good inter-service / inter-agency synergy, cooperation and collaboration down to the very last man within our ranks and files.
“This platform is to promote inter-service synergy, cooperation and collaboration among that Region as well as give back ups where necessary.”
“We are ushering in a new era of inter-service synergy cooperation and collaboration in Lagos state.
“We are rightly and consciously bidding goodbye to all negative issues that constitute the bane of good and efficacious of inter service/agency relations in this state,” he said.
Gen Udoh reiterated that “We can only succeed better if we share information and intelligence with each other and even provide back up for each other, rather than trying to undermine each other.
In his remarks, the Flag Officer Commanding (GOC) Western Naval Command, Rear Admiral Sylvanus Abbah, noted that every security agency  must work in unionism irrespective of arms noting that God created the fingers differently but they work together to achieve common goal.
Air Officer Commanding, Logistics Command, AVM Nnamdi Ekeh, the Lagos State Fire Service Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), the Nigerian Prison Service; Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC); Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA); Lagos State Emergency Management Authority (LASEMA); the Lagos State Police Command were all represented during the Happy Hour fete.






Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment