Share this on WhatsApp



A disturbing post-world cup tragedy that would have befell the Captain of the Super Eagles, John Mikel Obi, was averted by the Nigeria Police. Luck apparently ran out of a set of kidnappers who wanted to have a share of the World Cup largess from the Super Eagles Captain on his return from Russia, though they escaped Police’s bombardment while their victims were rescued unhurt.
National Daily gathered that the Enugu State Police Command, had on Monday rescued the father of Super Eagles Captain, John Mikel Obi, and his driver Ishaya John, who were kidnapped by  gunmen on Friday, June 29, 2018.
The Police Command revealed that the Operatives of the 9th Mile Division, Enugu,  on Monday rescued Pa Michael Obi,  Mikel’s father, Ishaya John, the driver from the gunmen at a forest along the old Egede Affa Road in  Udi Local Government Area,  Enugu State. The rescued victims were said to have been reunited with their families.
The Enugu Command’s Public Relations Officer, Ebere Amarizu,  was said to have admitted that, “Pa Obi and his driver were allegedly abducted along Markurdi/Enugu Road on 29 June, 2018  in the afternoon on his way from Jos in his grey colored Toyota Prado Jeep with registration number MUS 604CG  but were taken to unknown destination through the thick forest.”
He disclosed: “the abductors started calling to demand a ransom of N10 million before the operatives acting on intelligence information swooped on them where a gun duel ensued which forced the hoodlums to abandon their victims inside the forest and they were promptly rescued.”
Mikel’s father was said to be taken to the office of the Enugu State Commissioner of Police, Dan Mallam Mohammed, where a team of doctors from the Police Medical Unit conducted medical checks on him to confirm his state of health.
National Daily gathered that  the State Police Command has alerted members of the public,   owners and operators of hospital to watch out for any one with gun shot injury or wound and report such person immediately to the Police.
Amarizu had indicated that comprehensive investigations have commenced into the incident.
Meanwhile, the CP has commended the operatives of the 9th Mile for the successful operations, and members of the public for their timely and useful information.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment