Share this on WhatsApp



In a bid to save lives and to contribute greatly to the healthcare of Nigerians, Dana Group partnered with Rotary Club and Sri Sai Vandana Foundation (SSVF) on a blood donation camp aimed at bridging the ever-increasing gap between the demand and supply of blood in Nigeria.
In line with its commitment to contribute to the community in a meaningful way, Dana group’s partnership with other organizations on the blood donation camp is aimed at saving lives and helping those who are in need by making a difference in the country.
In the recently conducted blood donation camp, a large pool of employee volunteered in the program to help contribute to the Rotary club’s call on corporate bodies to provide blood and meet up with the needs of the country’s population of over 180 million people.
The blood donation drive is to help ensure blood is never missing from hospital shelves and to reduce the surging rise of postpartum hemorrhaging which is the leading cause of maternal mortality, accounting for over 27 percent of all maternal deaths in Nigeria.
Addressing the camp during the blood donation camp, Mr. Ramesh Hathiramani, Chairman, Dana Group said the gesture is rooted in the objective of Dana Group’s social responsibility to contribute to the development of society as an upright corporate citizen and staying true to the group’s unwavering commitment to saving lives.
“We further acknowledge the Rotary Club, Lagos Blood Bank and the SSVF for their dedicated efforts towards the care and treatment of local communities, notably their work to ensure that blood reserves remain ample and lives continue to be saved.”
Also speaking at the programme, Dana Group’s Vice President, Admin Dinesh Tanwani, stressed that volunteer-ism is central to Dana Group’s culture, adding that the partnership with the Rotary Club and SSVF is one of the ways the company is helping to save lives.
Expressing his awe and appreciation of the high turnout of Dana Group employees, President of the Rotary Club, Rotarian. Sanjeev Tandon, expressed his gratitude to blood donors.
“It was heartwarming to see the positive turnout of willing donors and I appreciate the many efforts contributed by all concerned, from the clubs, the corporate bodies, as well as other notable individuals with a passion to save lives through the blood bank free donation project, especially the Indians nation.”
In recent years across the states in Nigeria, there has been a significant rise in the awareness and the call for blood donation to help the practice of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).
The demand for donated blood in hospitals and clinics, over the years, has been on a significant rise and the consistency in the high demand has necessitated the call for blood donation in the country by many an organization, particularly, Rotary club and Dana group.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment