Share this on WhatsApp

Oshiomhole assures of reconciliation  




Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State, after a closed-door meeting with the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, on Thursday in Abuja, denied dumping APC for another political party in the build up to the 2019 general elections. The Benue governor also concealed his intention to leave the ruling party which he revealed on Monday in Makurdi after inaugurating a newly appointed Special Adviser.
More so, Ortom was in the team of APC members who had consultations with PDP leaders on Wednesday.
National Daily gathered that Ortom had declared after the meeting with Oshiomhole, “It was the Benue APC that gave me a red card not the national APC and that was enough to make myself available out of the pitch.
“But the leadership of the party told me that its decision is superior to that of any individual or group of people and I think that is good enough.
“They have spoken to him, and have spoken to me and the state stakeholders are going to be spoken to and that’s where I belong.
“We have not concluded the matter, it’s an ongoing process, I always stood for peace, and I always want peace to prevail, that’s what I call for.
“I am here in APC, I am a member of APC, I am still flying the flag of APC, I only said I was given red card but I have been corrected by the national secretariat.”
Oshiomhole had remarked that the ruling APC does not have red cards in its cupboard and could not give what it doesn’t have. He admitted that there could, however, be legitimate legal issues and disagreements in some of the party’s state’s chapters.
The national chairman stated that it is the responsibility of the leadership to help aggrieved members to find a common ground.
“In Benue, we are going for a win-win solution Gov. Ortom is not going anywhere, he is a very prominent member of our party, and we appreciate his leadership in Benue.
“The peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that is hovering around must know that it is only people without honour that will vomit in the morning and convert it to launch in the afternoon.
“People like Ortom can’t leave PDP three and half years ago with his eyes open and two three years latter, because of some tension, is thinking of returning.
“He is a man of honour and he knows that one’s you move one step forward, you will want to take the second step to consolidate the first step, that’s the way to go.
“Be assured that the PDP can go and do whatever they want to do, but it won’t change the situation in the minds of those who are convinced in building the future,” Oshiomhole declared.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment