By Esther Egbe
Former Orlando Magic player, Olumide Oyedeji has signed a three-year deal with PEAK Sport,  a Chinese sportswear/sports equipment that designs, develops, manufactures, distributes and markets its sportswear products under the PEAK brand,National Daily learnt.
Oyedeji, who captained the Nigeria National Basketball Team, D’Tigers to the 2015 FIBA AfroBasket title in Tunisia said; “I just signed a three years endorsement with PEAK Sports which is one of the top five sports apparel in the World”.
“PEAK Sports signed a contract with the Nigeria national team which is not fulfilled. I’m excited and proud to be part of the PEAK Family and probably looking at the business part of it, having my own line brand, signed a three years endorsement and probably be the Africa PEAK ambassador, the first African athlete to be signed”, ex-D’Tigers Captain Oyedeji added.
“I’m looking forward to join NBA All Stars like; Tony Parker (San Antonio Spurs), George Hill (Cleveland Cavaliers), Lou Williams (Los Angeles Clippers), Matthew Dellavedova (Milwaukee Bucks), Anthony Morrow (Oklahoma City Thunder) and couple of NBA players in the PEAK Family”.
“It’s good to be a brand ambassador for PEAK Sport, a great feeling to be part of it. To be the first African to be recognized by PEAK Sport; that means they know your value”, the former Shanxi Zhongyu player told National Daily.
Oyedeji is the only African player to ever feature in all major basketball tournaments on the global stage, including Olympics Games, World Cup, Commonwealth Games, All Africa Games, NBA, Euro-League, Asia Championships and South American basketball leagues.
PEAK Sports signed a deal with Nigeria Basketball Federation under Tijani Umar in  2016 for 4 years using the influence of Olumide Oyedeji to break the deal worth about 1.5 to 2 million U.S Dollars which included  merchandise, Cash and grant, bonuses, training tours ,coaches exchange program and training with developing house of basketball in Nigeria and it’s has not  been utilized
Oyedeji who played in China for 8 years was popular and well known name in China  where he played with Beijing Ducks, Liaoning Pampam, Qingdao Eagle , Shanxi Zhongyu and Foshan Lions. where he became an household name in China basketball history .
 
 

			
			PV: 
			0