Share this on WhatsApp



Nigeria football Federation President, Ambassador Chris Giwa says the demand and expectations on the new board are very high but he trusts God to succeed,National Daily learnt.
The NFF president stated this on Thursday in Abuja when a strong 30-man delegation from Plateau state paid him a solidarity visit.
Giwa said the most important desire of his heart and the board was to ensure that nobody was oppressed in the sports sector, who has genuine interest and passion for its development.
‘Football is the greatest unifying factor in our country and I think God has brought me at a time like this to be an instrument of change in our sports, “Giwa noted.
He further stated:” I don’t believe in failure and we will never fail by the grace of God, who has brought us this far, through a tortuous journey to justice. ”
Earlier, the leader of the delegation, Dr Ishaya Pam traced the historical contributions of Giwa in building Plateau United and football generally in the state, which the state was reaping the benefits today.
He noted that Giwa had created job opportunities for teeming youth across the country with his club Giwa FC, while highlighting the state’s contributions to football development in the country with the likes of Mike Obi, Ahmed Musa, Ogenyi Onazi, and Uche Agbo among others
“I want you to forget the years that the locust has eaten because God will restore those years, and I also want you to be magnanimous in victory, as we have always known you to have a large heart, please forgive and carry everyone along, “Pam stated.
The former Jos University Teaching Hospital FC Chairman also commended President Muhammadu Buhari and Sports Minister Solomon Dalung for standing by justice and  not allowing the blackmail in some sections of the media to deter them.
Pam, who said the delegation was a cross section of residents in Plateau from different ethnic and religious backgrounds, enjoined Nigerians to support Giwa to deliver on his mandate.
Board members are the event include Dr Shehu Adamu, Chief Effiong Johnson, Yahaya Adama, and Sani Fema.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment