Share this on WhatsApp



The Lagos State Police Command has uncovered a printing press where election materials meant for the Saturday election in Ekiti State were being printed.
Lagos Commissioner of Police Imohimi Edgal led some detectives to the printing press located at 13A and 13B, Oguntona street, Gbagada area of the state, on Monday, The Cable reported.
Two persons have so far been arrested on the premises of the company owned by someone related to Ekiti Gov. Ayo Fayose.
A booklet of form belonging to Ekiti State Independent Electoral Commission (EKSIEC) and a copy of the state’s voter card register.
According to Imohimi, on July 8, an intelligence report from a credible source was received by the Command that ballot papers meant for the forthcoming gubernatorial election in Ekiti were being printed in a company, O’Naphtali Limited, located at 13B Oguntona crescent, Gbagada, Lagos.
“The company is owned by one Eniola Fayose. The report further revealed that some of the printed ballot papers were moved to Ekiti in three Hilux vans on Friday July 6, while the artworks were still in the company’s graphic computers.
“Based on the report, I led a contingent of policemen to the location, to verify the information.
“At the scene, it was also discovered that the buildings are being used for general printing/art work,” Edgal said.
He said a search warrant was executed on the premises and the following items were recovered: One HP laptop, one Acer laptop, one booklet of form EC/ EK 8B Ekiti State Independent Electoral Commission (EKSIEC); three EKEC 50 A envelops for miscellaneous materials, two pieces of Ekiti SEC, eight A(1) statement of result, and one copy of form Ekiti SEC eight A(1).
Others include “one income tax clearance certificate of Ekiti state, seven pieces of Ekiti state Internal revenue motor receipts, one piece of form EC 8A of Ekiti SEC, one piece of Ekiti state voter’s card register, log book cover for Ado local government” among others.
Preliminary investigations by the detectives showed the company claim to be in a contractual agreement with the Ekiti state Independent Electoral Commission “to print the elections materials found during the search.”
The recovered laptops are being scrutinised by police ICT experts.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment