Share this on WhatsApp














Another fire incident was averted on Wednesday when a petrol laden tanker tripped and spilled its content Moshalashi bus stop in Iyana Ipaja, a suburb in Lagos.

Recall that a petro tanker had exploded last Thursday at Otedola Bridge end of Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, killing nine people on the spot with over 50 vehicles burnt.

In this latest incident, National Daily gathered that officials of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) moved in on time to prevent the 33,000-PMS carrier from catching fire.

Emergency officials are currently at the scene of the accident at Iyano Ipaja. Traffic has been diverted, compounding the logjam on the road undergoing construction.

Meanwhile the Senate tasked the Nigeria Police and the Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC, to investigate the circumstances surrounding the Otedola bridge incident.

The Senate also resolved to meet with the FRSC and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, to seek amendment of extant laws needed to check accidents involving articulated vehicles.

This development followed a motion at the plenary on Wednesday by Senator Gbenga Ashafa (Lagos-East), in conjunction with senators Oluremi Tinubu (Lagos-Central) and Solomon Adeola (Lagos-West).

Granting prayers of the motion, the lawmakers resolved to “urge the FRSC, the Nigeria Police and all relevant security agencies to cooperate with Lagos State and other states in ensuring that drivers of articulated vehicles comply with all federal and state traffic safety laws.

“We urge the Nigeria Police to work in conjunction with the FRSC to carry out a thorough investigation of the circumstances leading to the accident that led to the fuel tanker fire, with the view to prosecuting anyone found culpable in this preventable fire incident.




“The relevant committees of the Senate should invite the FRSC and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation with a view to finding a legislative solution towards ensuring that, before trucks are loaded, mandatory safety checks are put in place to ascertain the condition of the tankers and the road worthiness of the vehicles.”














Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment