Share this on WhatsApp



After escaping security siege to his Abuja home Tuesday, Senate President Bukola Saraki has again responded in writing to the invitation by IGP Ibrahim Idris over allegations made against him by the Offa bank robbery suspects in Kwara.
The police had in June invited Saraki for questioning over the bank robberies in Offa on April 5, but the Senate President responded to the invitation in writing.
In a letter dated July 23 and addressed to the Senate President, Idris asked Saraki to report to the police on Tuesday at 8 am to provide further clarification on his relationship with the five leaders of the robbery gang.
The IGP insisted that the gang leaders claimed they were political thugs to Saraki.
“[And that] the Senate President supplies arms and money to the thugs; that everyone in Kwara Central fears them because of their guns and ability to kill anybody without hesitation,” the letter stated in part.
Saraki, however, did not honour the Tuesday invitation.
He slipped off the security net cast over his Abuja residence by the operatives of the Department of State Services and men of the Nigeria Police.
Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the Senate president, Yusuph Olaniyonu, said Wednesday his boss had responded to the police in writing on Tuesday, and he has answered all the questions raised by the police in his letter to the IG.
According to him, after answering all the questions raised by the police in his letter, Saraki, he said, doessn’t have to go to the police personally.
“He has written a letter to them and the letter has taken care of the purpose of the invitation. He sent the letter to them yesterday (Tuesday). The letter addressed the issues raised in the invitation letter,” Olaniyonu said.
The Tuesday incident was the second time the No. 3 citizen would refuse to honour the police invitation over his complicity in the Offa robbery–the Force headquarters has said Nigerian law, which empowers the police to investigate crimes,  apply to everybody.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment