Share this on WhatsApp



The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has admonished the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on the consequences of rigging the July 14, 2018 governorship election in Eikiti State. The national leadership of the party warned the INEC to allow the will of the people of Ekiti prevailed over the decision and choice of who governs them in the state.
National Daily gathered that Prince Uche Secondus, PDP National Chairman, hosting a Presidential aspirants of the party, Alhaji Tanimu Turaki, at the National Secretariat, Wadata House, Abuja, disclosed that intelligence available to party leaders revealed that the All Progressives Congress (APC) is planning to rig the Saturday, July 14, 2018, governorship election in Ekiti State. The Chairman cautioned that that rigging the Ekiti election would lead to setting fire in the land.
Secondus, however, solicited intervention of the international community to show interest and help contain the bloodshed by Fulani herdsmen in Nigeria.
Secondus had warned: “Thwart the will of Ekiti people and put unquenchable fire in the country.
“Let me warn the INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmud Yakubu, and Amina Zakari, the National Commissioner in charge of operations in the electoral commission, to be careful with any agenda they have that is against the will of the people of Ekiti.
“They are harassing, arresting and framing up people but they cannot arrest and kill everybody. We are ready for them”
The PDP National Chairman reaffirmed the party’s hegemony in Ekiti State, insisting on the victory of the party in the election.
 “Whether they like it or not, PDP will win Ekiti come July 14, because we are on ground and have something to show. We will also go ahead to win Osun State in September and the general elections in February 2019,” Secondus declared.
The visiting Presidential aspirant, Taminu Turaki, a former Minister of Special Duties in the administration of the former President Goodluck Jonathan, commended Secondus for fulfilling his campaign promises of leading the party with transparency, inclusiveness, no impunity and imposition.
Turaki also assured victory for the PDP if given the presidential ticket of the party for the 2019 presidential election.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment