Share this on WhatsApp



The Nigerian Air Force has commenced extensive operations to wipe away insurgency in the north east. The Force revealed that they have begun the conduct of Operation “Thunder Strike” to flush out Boko Haram in selected locations in the North East.
The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, during a working visit to Maiduguri, Borno State, said the visit was to enable him have a firsthand information on the operation of the Air force in the area.
Abubakar said the operation was designed to deny the insurgents the freedom of action to attack soft targets in local communities, markets and places of gathering.
“Our men have been doing an excellent job. They have been working round the clock to make sure that our communities are safe and secured.
“We feel that we have to come and appreciate them for all the effort, and to convey the appreciation of the Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammad Buhari, for all they have been putting to ensure our communities are safe.
“We have also commenced operation `Thunder Strike’ and so far, we have seen excellent results. We want to make sure that these people that have evil intention do not have the opportunity to come and attack our communities and our troops.
“From what I have been briefed, it is very clear that so much have been put-in in terms of commitment, diligence and patriotism,’’ he said.
Abubakar declared that, “the issue of defeating Boko Horam has been over flogged; what we are simply doing is to make sure that our communities are safe.
“I can assure you that Boko Haram have been substantially defeated; they cannot function as an organised fighting force; they can only attack soft targets, go to a market or somewhere people are gathered, to detonate their explosives.
“What we are simply doing is to make sure that they are denied even the  soft targets; we are doing this with the support of the fighting troops of ‘operation lafiya dole.”
The Chief of Air Staff observed that the major challenge faced was the weather conditions in the area, especially, in this period of the year.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment