Share this on WhatsApp



Football legend Ronaldinho has opened up on reports he is to marry two women at the same time.
Reports in Brazil suggested the former Barcelona star, 38, will tie the knot with his two fiancees in August this year.
Ronaldinho has reportedly been living “harmoniously” with both Priscilla Coelho and Beatriz Souza at his £5million Rio de Janeiro mansion since December.
The Brazil legend was in the West Zone of the city on Thursday for the launch of his R10 brand and he rebuffed the claims.
“The whole world is calling me,” he told SporTV when asked about the reports.
“I’m not going to get married, it is the biggest lie.”
Ronaldinho started dating Beatriz in 2016, but is said to have continued his relationship with Priscilla, which began several years earlier.
Ronaldinho has denied he will marry the two girls
According to reports, both lovers receive an “allowance” of around £1,500 from the footballer to spend as they wish.
He also reportedly always gives the two the exact same presents, including recently buying them the same perfume during a trip abroad together.
Former World Player of the Year Ronaldinho asked both for their hands in marriage in January last year and gave them both engagement rings, according to Brazilian columnist Leo Dias on Thursday.
The same story claimed he would marry the two women at a private ceremony inside the Santa Monica condominium, in the upmarket Barra da Tijuca district in Rio, where he has lived since 2015.
During the Rio carnival this year Ronaldinho hired a VIP box in the sambadrome to watch the processions and took both women.
According to reports, everything was fine until ex-girlfriend Juliana Diniz, who the footballer dated in 2011, showed up.
Showbiz insider Leo Dias claimed that the climate became frosty as Priscilla and Beatriz didn’t hide their jealousy of the woman.
Both Priscilla and Beatriz are from Belo Horizonte, the city where the footballer played with Atletico Mineiro, leading the club to its first Copa Libertadores title in 2012.
Although Ronaldinho has never publicly confirmed his relationship with the women, friends of the star reportedly treat them both as his fiancees, according to reports.
Ronaldinho gave them both engagement rings
Beatriz Souza is said to be friends with Priscilla Coelho
He also travels with both women to almost every event he attends.
In March this year, during a trip to Japan with his samba music band, he posted photos a video of himself with both women to his 32 million followers of his Instagram page.
They also travelled with him to the Brazilian capital Brasilia a week later, where the footballer, who is believed to be considering a career in politics like fellow footballer Romario, joined centre-right party the Brazilian Republican Party (PRB).
 
Mirror.co.uk
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment