Share this on WhatsApp



 
Some Man United fans have been saying this since Christmas, even making twitter rants about it, but it was only until the West Ham game that some of the fans started agreeing with the theory of #JoseOut. The players have stopped playing for Jose Mourinho and it would absolutely disastrous for Manchester United to continue his employment as manager. This is not just about the fact that he plays the worst football out of the top six clubs in all the big European leagues despite spending as astonishing amount of money. It is about the short to medium term future of the club. It is now 5 seasons since the club mounted a serious challenge for the title and we look further away from winning the title than ever before. City have laid down the gauntlet, and with their endless wealth, committed owners, excellent off-field structure and jewel in the crown, Guardiola, they will be a force to be reckoned with for the foreseeable future. They, along with Chelsea, regularly compete with United for players, but if Liverpool win the Champion’s League, they too will be able to choose from the pool of players previously only accessible to a select number of clubs.
There is a very credible argument that this will be the case even if they lose the final, which brings us nicely to the next point. Jose has openly complained about the lack of quality in the players at his disposal, yet has done seemingly nothing to inspire confidence in them to perform better than they are. Liverpool and Spurs both have weaker squads than United, yet their players continue to excel under the tutelage of Klopp and Pochettino respectively. If you were an attacking player looking to move to the Premier League next season, which manager would you want to play for? Guardiola, Mourinho, Klopp or Pochettino? Would you really want to play for a manager that looks for every opportunity to curb your attacking instincts? Oh, and the fact that he complains about the quality of the squad is laughable in itself. This is a manager with players such as De Gea, Bailly, Lindelof, Shaw, Rojo, Pogba, Matic, Herrera, Sanchez, Martial, Rashford, Mata and Lukaku at his disposal. Yet he persists with over the hill wingers at fullback, continues to rely on one of Smalling and Jones in central defence when it has been clear for a number of seasons that they are not fit for purpose and ostracises young talent like Shaw, Pogba, Martial and Rashford. Shaw was the best player in the first half last night and most, if not all of our attacks came down the left side. Yet Jose saw it fit to rollick him for supposedly venturing too far forward. Lindelof had a better game than Smalling or Jones have had in the last 5 season, but Jose has kept him out of the team for long periods of the season.
Jose looks like a beaten man and the one thing United supporters should ask themselves is what would you miss if he left the club tomorrow? City, Liverpool and Spurs supporters would be devastated if their managers left, can any United fan really say the same if Jose was to leave? He is begging for Fellaini to stay (Moyes was crucified for signing him but isn’t it worse to beg him to stay when an exit for him is in clear sight?) and those statements after the Seville game are quite possibly the worst thing any Manchester United manager has ever said. It really is time for United to give him the boot and give the job to Pochettino, Allegri or Zidane.
Hell, some fans would even put up with Wenger if it means Jose leaves the club. At least their young players will play and they will finally get to watch some lovely football at Old Trafford. Take away the responsibility for organising the defence from Jose and Wenger could even lead United to title glory!. In all seriousness though , the supporters, have had enough. They cannot watch anymore of Mourinho’s Manchester United hence the -#JoseOut
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment