Share this on WhatsApp

The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has announced the commencement of its nationwide recruitment exercise and has opened its portal to receive applications.

In a post on the commission’s website monitored by National Daily, the FRSC says “qualified candidates” can apply for employment into the following positions; officer cadre, marshal inspectorate (MI) cadre, and road marshal assistant cadre.

According to Bisi Kazeem, the corps spokesman, candidates for the officer cadre are expected to possess a first degree, NYSC discharge certificates, and must not be more than 30 years old.

For the marshal inspectorate cadre, he said there are three subcategories namely, marshal inspector I, marshal inspector II, and marshal inspector III. He said the requirements for MI-I are higher national diploma, NYSC discharge certificates, registered nurse and midwife, and must equally not be above age 30.

The requirements for MI-II are Nigeria Certificate of Education (NCE), registered nurse or registered midwife. Applicants to this cadre, he said, must not be more than 28 years old.

Applicants for MI-III must possess national diploma, community health extension workers certificate (CHEW), and must also not be older than 28.

The statement further read: “Application into the category of RMAII requires a minimum of 5 credits in SSCE/GCE/NECO/NABTEB and must include Mathematics and English Language. For RMAIII, the requirement is a minimum of 3 credits in SSCE/GCE/NECO/NABTEB. Applicants into the two categories of RMAs must not be more than 27 years of age.”
 
Kazeem said artisans and tradesmen fall into the same categories of RMAs, however, they must possess a minimum of four passes in SSCE/GCE/NECO/NABTEB, have trade test or other professional certificates, as well as a valid class of drivers licence (for drivers and bikers), and must not be more than 28.

He said applications to any of the cadres can be done through FRSC website (www.recruitment.frsc.gov.ng).
Shortlisted candidates are expected to come along with a print out of their forms as well as the acknowledgment slip for screening.

The FRSC said the exercise attracts no fee and that applications must be submitted within six weeks of the publication of the advert.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment