Share this on WhatsApp
On the 3rd of May, 2018, the Divisional Police Officer, Ogombo, Ajah, Lagos,  received a distress call at about 0730hrs, that one Mr. Otike Odibi, was allegedly  killed in his home at Diamond Estate, Sango-Tedo Lagos, by his wife, one Mrs Udeme Odibi.

Based on the information, the DPO mobilised a team of detectives to the scene where they found the man lying on the bed in the pool of his own blood, with his stomach ripped open exposing the intestine. As if that was not enough, the killer severed his genital and placed it on his right hand. However, before the arrival of the Police,  Mrs Udeme who had unsuccessfully attempted to commit suicide after allegedly killing her husband, was rushed to the hospital for treatment by neighbours.

Sequel to the above, the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Edgal Imohimi,  directed Crime Scene Detectives from the homicide section of the SCID Panti Yaba and Forensic experts  to the scene to aid in the investigation.




Eye witness account revealed that the couple both whom are lawyers, were married three years ago after the deceased divorced his first wife. The deceased first marriage produced a daughter currently schooling in the UK. However the current marriage is said to be without a child.
 

Further information from a neighbour, revealed that the deceased called him on phone in the night before he was murdered, complaining that the wife was threatening to kill him with a knife. The said neighbour however warned him to be careful. The deceased also called his mother and his younger sister complaining of threat to his life that fateful night.

The CP noted that not too long ago, a husband allegedly killed his wife and baby in Banana Island Lagos. He therefore advised couples to learn to resolve their matrimonial disputes without resorting to violence.

This murder case was brought to the notice of pressmen (By SP Chike Oti, Police Public Relations Officer, Lagos State).  And since then the story has made remarkable features on Facebook.
 
A facebook commentor, Chinneye Ezeh, who seem to know the accused did find it difficult to believe that she could do such a thing, “this is really out of character… I ‘ve know this girl for over 20 years I am really struggling to believe that my friend can do this.  I lived with her for so long. There is NO way on earth she can do this… I’m sorry” she said.
 

“An ongoing and as yet unresolved murder investigation on Facebook?
Is it just me that sees all the potential legal minefields for any Prosecutor?

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment