Share this on WhatsApp



Winner of the last Saturday Ekiti All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary, Kayode Fayemi says Ekiti is in dire need of rescue.
Fayemi, who stated this during his acceptance speech said “good governance was cut short” in the state four years ago when he lost his re-election bid to incumbent governor, Ayo Fayose.
He said: “Without a doubt, Ekiti is in critical need of rescue. It is imperative that we urgently commence the task of purging ourselves of the bad reputation we have earned in recent years and restore good governance to the state.
“In my valedictory address in 2014, I said that future administrations would be judged by the standards we set during our time in office. It should be clear to any observer that over the past four years, Ekiti has retreated from the progressive values that we espoused in office and our grand ideals of human development.
“We have seen a cynical approach to politics that exploits the penury of the poor and the vulnerability of the marginalised. We have seen the entrenchment of the disdain for elders, traditional institutions, and all forms of constituted authorities.
“We must resume the march to break the yoke of ignorance that keeps our people down; liberate them from ill-health and other limitations that restrain them from achieving their potentials; and break the stranglehold of poverty which keeps people from living full creative lives.
“In practical and policy terms, what this means is that the APC administration to be sworn in on October 15, 2018, by the grace of God, must resume good governance that was cut short four years ago, and once again prioritise social investments in education, healthcare and other social protection programmes that reduce the cost of living, while raising the quality of life.
“I want you to rest assured that I’m not any vengeance mission. I have a profound sense of an unfinished business – the business of deepening our development agenda and making poverty history in this land.”
Fayemi, who is the minister of solid minerals will be contesting against Kolapo Olusola of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) and candidates of other parties in the state governorship election slated for July 14.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment