Share this on WhatsApp




To Build A Nation (TBAN), the transformation movement for the 2019 presidential candidate, Kingsley Moghalu has announced the appointment of Jide Akintunde, MD/CEO of Financial Nigeria International Limited as its official spokesman.
A graduate of the University of Lagos, Jide Akintunde is also the director of Nigeria Development and Finance Forum (NDFF), a platform to directly provide country policy and financial market briefings to government representatives, private sector leaders, members of chambers of commerce, Nigerians in the diaspora, and the international community annually.
As a writer, columnist and editor, he has interviewed high-level policymakers and business leaders across the world. He has been published in several national and international media platforms, successfully developing Financial Nigeria magazine into a useful tool in policy management, corporate communications, and market entry strategies.
With the vision to transform Nigeria through action and a collective voice, ‘To Build A Nation’, a grassroots arm of Kingsley Moghalu’s presidential campaign, is centred on mobilizing support and advancing the candidate’s policies and priorities among Nigerians.
Kingsley Moghalu served as deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria from 2009 to 2014. As a deputy governor for Financial Stability, he led the implementation of far-reaching reforms in Nigeria’s banking sector after a combination of the global financial crisis, corporate governance abuses and weak risk management left one third of Nigerian banks on the edge of collapse.
Moghalu was a member of the Board of Directors, the Monetary Policy Committee, and the Committee of Governors of the CBN, and was also a member of Nigeria’s Economic Management Team.
He also led corporate governance in a number of international and Nigerian financial institutions as a member or chair of the boards of directors of the Alliance for Financial Inclusion (AFI), International Islamic Liquidity Management Corporation (IILMC), Nigerian Export-Import Bank (NEXIM), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Financial Institutions Training Centre (FITC), and the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON).
Moghalu, a Professor of Practice in International Business and Public Policy at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, is the Founder of Sogato Strategies LLC, an emerging markets risk, strategy and macroeconomic advisory firm, and a Senior Adviser of the Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum (OMFIF).
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment