Share this on WhatsApp

President Muhammadu Buhari says his administration has performed creditably well in the last three years considering what he inherited from the previous administration.

President Buhari who disclosed this in his nationwide broadcast to commemorate the Democracy Day and his administration’s third anniversary on Tuesday, said his administration conscientious implementation of the Treasury Single Account, TSA and the Whistle Blowing policy of the government has have save the country about N700 billion.

The President said that the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) was launched to restore and sustain economic growth, saying the plan had started yielding fruits with the recent National Bureau of Statistics reports which showed that the economy grew by 1.95 per cent in the first quarter of 2018.

Describing the growth as a good performance when compared to -0.91 growth recorded in the first quarter of 2017 and -0.67 per cent in first quarter of 2016, he said the country’s foreign reserve had improved significantly from $29.6 in 2015 to $47.5 billion as of May, 2018 while inflation has been declining every month since January, 2017.

He also said the recently conducted Focus Labs in three key sectors of the economy including agriculture and transport, manufacturing and processing and power and gas had yielded prospects of $22.5 billion investments and potential for creating over 500,000 jobs by 2020.

He also spoke on N-Power job creation platform which he said had provided jobs for 200,000 youths while the next batch of 300,000 have been selected, verified and would soon be deployed across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).

On power generation, he said the country now distributes 5, 222.3 since December, 2017 while power generation capacity now exceeds over 7,500 megawatts. He also spoke on investment in railway and education.

He also said Sovereign Wealth Fund project portfolio has been expanded with an injection of US$650 million so as to strengthen its investment in local infrastructure, power, health, re-construction of Abuja-Kano road, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, East West Road (Section V) and the Mambilla Hydro-electric Power project as well as the construction of the 2nd Niger Bridge.

“The fight against corruption through the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission has resulted in recoveries of Billions of Naira, as well as forfeiture of various forms of assets. This alongside other efforts has improved Nigeria’s international image and regional cooperation,” he added.

He noted that the Niger Delta region had enjoyed relative peace through what he described as social inclusiveness and cooperation of elders as well as those he described as good people of the region, assuring that the government was committed to implementing thorough peace, security and development plans in the region. 

He added that the Ogoni clean-up launched in June 2016 was equally on course.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment