Share this on WhatsApp



 
Former President Olusegun Obasanjo and other members of his Coalition of Nigeria Movement (CNM) has finally moved into the African Democratic Congress.
Olagunsoye Oyinlola, co-convener of the movement and a former governor of Osun state, announced this at a press conference on Thursday, after dumping the All Progressives Congress (APC).
Addressing the conference in Abuja, Oyinlola said the decision to move in to ADP is “an appreciation of the progressive essence of the party and its untainted existence on the terrain of our nation’s politics.”
He said Nigerians should expect more from the movement, describing the fusion as “the first in a multi-layered action plan to give back the country to its much deprived people.”
“Between that time and today, a lot of grounds have been covered in achieving the set goals. One of such is what we are doing here today; the formal fusing of our movement into the African Democratic Congress,” he said.
“As we stated in January during the launch of the CNM, we are taking on this task not minding the inconveniences and other expected and unexpected consequences of our efforts at reinventing the country.
“While I on behalf of the leadership and the over three million members of the CNM congratulate ADC as the vehicle for national reinvention, I urge us to let us know that the task ahead is an arduous one that needs further strengthening of the forces of change.”
Oyinlola added that ADC is “well placed” to make democracy work for Nigerians and that it is “properly placed to join other patriots in moving Nigerians to join hands to make our country truly great,” he said.
Also speaking on the new association, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo said President Buhari and his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) are taking Nigerians for a ride. “Let me start by welcoming and commending the emergence of a renewed and reinvigorated African Democratic Congress, ADC, as a political party.
“Since the inception of Coalition for Nigeria Movement, CNM, many of the sixty-eight registered political parties had contacted and consulted with the Movement on coming together and working together.
“The leadership of the Movement, after detailed examination, wide consultation and bearing in mind the orientation, policies and direction of the Movement, have agreed to adopt ADC as its platform to work with others for bringing about desirable change in the Nigeria polity and governance.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment