Share this on WhatsApp

A special offences court sitting in Lagos has declared Innocent Chukwuma, Chairman of innoson Motors Nigeria Ltd wanted on Thursday following his refusal to make an appearance in court for the fifth time.

Chukwuma who is standing trial in a matter between his company and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission had previously failed to make an appearance in court for his arraignment on Jan. 17, Feb. 9, March 14 and April 25.

His failure to appear before the court for five consecutive times informed the issuance of the bench warrant by the Judge, Mojisola Dada.

Lead prosecuting counsel, Anselem Ozioko in his submission seeking the declaration of Innoson wanted said: “This appears to be the fifth time this matter is coming up before your Lordship for arraignment.

“The learned Senior Advocate of Nigeria representing the second defendant (Innoson) is still insisting on taking his application without ensuring the defendant is physically present in court.

Acceding to Ozioko’s request, Dada said, “The second defendant is hereby declared wanted and the case adjourned until June 22 for possible arraignment.”

Earlier, during the proceedings, Ozioko had informed the court that the anti-graft agency would also be taking some steps to ensure Innoson’s attendance in court on the next adjourned date.
 
Counsel to Innoson, George Uwechue (SAN), had requested that the court hear his application despite Dada’s declaration that no application will be heard until Innoson is physically present in court.

J. N Mbadugha, counsel to Innoson Motors Nigeria Ltd, in his submission told the court that he had an application challenging the jurisdiction of the court.

Mbadugha informed the court that he had made an appeal at the court of appeal over the case.

Justice Dada, however, maintained her position that the applications of the defence will not be heard until Innoson is physically present in court.
 
The EFCC alleged that Chukwuma and his company with intent to defraud; conspired to obtain by false pretence containers of motorcycle, spare parts and raw materials, a property of Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB) from Mitsui OSK Lines Ltd, Apapa, Lagos.

The prosecution claimed that the defendants in order to facilitate the fraud forged a bill of lading numbered 598286020 of Maersk Line Limited and 11007950841 of Mutsui O.S.K Lines by knowingly putting a false GTB stamp and signature of the bank staff.

According to the charge sheet, the defendants committed the offences between 2009 and July 2011 in Lagos.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment