Share this on WhatsApp



One of the governorship aspirants in the botched All Progressives Congress (APC) primary in Ekiti state, Babafemi Ojudu, has accused Kayode Fayemi, another co-contestant of threatening to cripple Ekiti if he is not given the APC ticket for the July 14 governorship election.
This is coming hours after after Fayemi, a serving minister had accused Ojudu who is also adviser of President Muhammadu Buhari and Bimbo Daramola, a former federal lawmaker of being too desperate, an act that led to the disruption of the primary on Saturday.
But responding, the Ekiti Rebirth Organisation (ERO), a group loyal to Ojudu, said if at all there is anyone desperate, it is Fayemi.
In a statement by Ranti Adebisi, its director general, the group accused Fayemi of engaging the services of suspected thugs that disrupted the election.
It said Fayemi’s statement is “another tantrum from a man whose political fortune has taken a deep slide in recent times and whose entire campaign strategy was built on lies, orchestrated violence and cheap anti-democratic tricks.”
“We implore the security agents who made several arrests at the scene to make public the identities of the people arrested and their sponsors. I can tell you 100 percent that they have no link whatsoever to the Ojudu campaign,” the statement read.
“Fayemi has been the candidate threatening violence since he joined the race last month. He threatened to cripple the state if not given the party ticket. He deployed security agents to intimidate delegates even during the conduct of the primaries.
“He is the aspirant that has been avoiding democratic test of popularity. Clearly, if there is anyone desperate, that person is Dr. Kayode Fayemi. Fayemi came late into this very contest to realise that the boat has left the shore. He is now looking for any straw to hang unto. He was shocked to realise that his much advertised hold on the state executive was a fluke.
“He was shocked that Ojudu was coasting home with a landslide so he has to haphazardly change from one rigging strategy to the other but Ekiti people are not fools.”
The aspirants seeking the APC ticket for the July 14 governorship poll in Ekiti have demanded that a new primary election be conducted, and be overseen by another election committee.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment