Share this on WhatsApp


Former president Olusegun Obasanjo says assessment of Buhari’s administration in the three years remained the same, describing the president’s performance as a total failure.

In a statement by his media aide, Kehinde Adeyemi, on Wednesday, May 2, Obasanjo said Buhari failed to redeem himself during his visit to the US where he met with President Donald Trump.

“It has come to the attention of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo that some elements in the Muhammadu Buhari camp and or support group are desperate to secure a second term, fair or foul. In this desperation, everything is fair, including telling libelous lies against persons and institutions, instead of addressing the fundamental issues of statecraft and economic management.”

He said in the last 24 hours the internet has been bombarded with deliberate falsehoods aimed at hoodwinking the unsuspecting Nigerians to believe that he has now endorsed Buhari for his second term because of some perceived Buhari’s ‘superlative’ performance in his encounter with Trump during his visit to the White House in Washington DC.

He denied ever meeting with some Nigeria Labour Congress leaders in his house in Abuja on Workers’ Day as being spread around.

According to the statement, Obasanjo was neither in Abuja on that date nor does he own a house in Abuja. “Any time he visits Abuja, he usually stays in a Guest House or hotel. For the record, Obasanjo has not and cannot endorse failure. His position remains as stated in his January 23rd, 2018 statement on the state of the nation.”

The statement stated that Chief Obasanjo sympathises with the plight of those campaigners and supporters of Buhari, but added that the former president doesn’t believe dishing out fake news that could only be believed by imbeciles will turn black into white.

“Nigerians know that Chief Obasanjo has only spoken the truth about widening poverty, alienation and social disunity and near disintegration of the country through Buhari’s incompetence. Obasanjo will continue to exercise his right to free speech and no amount of hate speech will assuage Nigerians who are in need of a brand new leadership.”

The statement stated that the mediocre performance of Buhari cannot be described by anybody as ‘superlative’ even by morons not the least President Obasanjo. 

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment