Share this on WhatsApp



Setate
There is no respite yet for embattled Senator Ovie Omo-Agege whose suspension by the Senate was nullified on Thursday by a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja. The court had declared the action of the Senate ‘‘unconstitutional’’.
The court in the judgment stated that the Senate cannot suspend the embattled senator beyond 14 days which is prescribed by the Senate rules.
However, the court’s judgment did not exonerate the senator from a hanging case of invasion of the Senate and stealing of the mace during plenary by hoodlums who went into the Upper Chamber with Omo-Agege.
Sources from the Senate insist that the various arms of government must respect the principles of separation of powers and that the judiciary should desist from interference with the duties of the legislature. They revealed that the case of invasion of the senate and stealing of the mace is still hanging, saying that the court judgment may not be final because the case could proceed to the Supreme Court and may not be concluded soon.
They maintained that there are protocols the suspended Omo-Agege would pass through before resumption of legislative duties. Thus, his resumption may not be immediate.
The Abuja high court had ordered immediate resumption and restoration of his salaries and allowances.
Omo-Agege, representing Delta Central in the Senate, was recently suspended for 90 legislative days by the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly, for saying that the amendment of the El3elctoral Act and reordering of the INEC timetable for 2019 election by the two chambers of the National Assembly was targeted at President Muhammadu Buhari. As the matter went to the disciplinary committee, Omo-Agege tendered an apology while as the same time, he proceeded to court to seek injunction against being suspended by the Senate.
The case was still pending in court when the senator restored to self-help, invading the Senate Chamber and leading hoodlums to steal the mace during plenary. Thereafter, he ran to court to seek protection against further discipline while a heinous crime has been committed.
The Senate Ethics and Privileges Committee on April 13 recommended Omo-Agege suspension after investigation.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment