Share this on WhatsApp



Lagos Commissioner of Police, Mr. Edgal Imohimi, on Monday paraded suspected armed robbers arrested at different locations in the state, at the State Police Command, Ikeja.
The CP revealed that a six man notorious armed robbery gang operated at No. 37 Luggard Avenue, Ikoyi, Lagos, saying Investigation into the case commenced immediately.
The Commissioner said that the big breakthrough came on the 25th of April, 2018, at about 1530 hours with the arrest of one John Aniefok ‘m’ and OsazeIduwe ‘m’ at Obalende area of Lagos by a combined team of the Command’s operatives and Federal SARS. The team also trailed and arrested Timothy Iduwe and Osogbayi ‘m’ in Benin City, Edo State on May 1, 2018.
The CP admonished criminals that “no matter how long it takes, once you strike in Lagos, the Command will never let you out of its radar until you are arrested and prosecuted.”
In another development, there was arrest of suspected pipeline vandals at Abule-Egba junction, Ekoro, based on information received and analyzed by the Intelligence Unit of the Command that some suspected persons were vandalizing NNPC Pipeline at Abule-Egba area of Ekoro, Lagos State.
The Command dispatched the RRS Ops Decoy Team to the scene to take appropriate action. At the scene, the following persons who had already damaged some pipes were arrested:- Chibuzor Nwoko ‘m’ 25 years (driver); AmudaTaoreed 37 years (driver); Abdulrazaq Mohammed 47 years (the Spy Okada man in charge of recce patrols ); Olagunju Nurudeen 27 years (motor boy); Adedeji Adeshina (motor boy). The Police recovered two 33,000 litres tanker-lorries without registration number plates; One Mahindra motorcycle with NNPC plate at the scene.
After arresting the suspects, the Command contacted the NNPC Maintenance Unit to repair and stop the leakages while the Police and the Fire Service men were on surveillance to protect lives and property.
In a case of conspiracy/armed robbery/unlawful possession of firearm (TOY PISTOL), the Command received information from members of the public that an armed robbery gang usually operates during rush hours in slow traffic or gridlock. Based on the report, the Command deployed a team of undercover operatives assisted by FSARS crack team from the Ladipo annex to track the suspects behind the robberies at Charity Bus-stop, Oshodi, Lagos.
The surveillance led to the arrest of the following persons in their hideout close to the road: Imole Otegbeye ‘m’ 22 years; Ibrahim Raymond ‘m’ 28 years; Mufutau Rilwan ‘m’ 22 years; Samad Sikiru ‘m’ 23 years; Rilwan Abdulsalam ‘m’ 22 years; Ibrahim Salami ‘m’ 26 years; Idowu Lamidi ‘m’ 28 years; Ismaila Malik ‘m’ 25 years; Ayodele Ezekiel ‘m’ 28 years; Ayodele Oluwafemi ‘m’ 36 years. Recovered from them is the tool of their trade, a toy pistol.
The Command insists the suspects will charged for armed robbery and unlawful possession of firearms.
The Commissioner disclosed cases of recovery of arms and ammunition. He narrated that on May 5, 2018, at 1230 hours, information was received that some hoodlums were in a hideout at Olusoga Street by Alafia Munshin. Based on the information, the DPO Munshin mobilized his men to the area.
However on sighting the policemen, the hoodlums took to their heels. The police team combed the hideout and recovered one Brownie Pistol with breech number ROA 380425PZ15595 loaded with two rounds of ammunition. “You can imagine what they could have done with the pistol if it was not recovered,” the CP remarked.
Based on credible information received, a team of Raider operatives SCIID, Panti, led by ASP Joseph Akingboji arrested the following suspected armed robbers, including a female, who have been terrorizing Ojo and Okokomaiko areas of Lagos – Wasiu Adam ‘m’ 24 years; Rasheed Yekini ‘m’ 23 years; Babatunde Ibrahim 27 years; Funmilayo Safiyat ‘f’ 28 years; Afeez Adeola ‘m’ 20 years; Rilwan Mohammed ‘m’ 24 years; Idowu Agboola ‘m’ 22 years; Mohammed Abubakar ‘m’ 21 years; Emmanuel Joseph ‘m’ 24 years.
They were all rounded up in their various hideouts within Ajangbadi and Okokomaiko. The following items were recovered in an uncompleted building in Okokomaiko – English made Double Barrel gun cut to size; one locally made single barrel Pistol; One Live Cartridge; One operational Bajaj Motorcycle with Reg. No AKN-386-QF; Quantities of Weeds suspected to be Indian hemp. The suspects had earlier mentioned one Funmilayo Safiyat and Mohammed Abubakar as the receivers of their loots.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment