Several stakeholders and Nigerian citizens have been responding differently to the Democracy Day Speech of President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday, as well as making broad evaluation of Nigeria’s 19 years of democracy.
The various stakeholders at different media platforms appear to be of the consensus that democracy has not stimulated the economic, social and political development associated with governance in a democracy. The consensus extends to overarching conclusion that Nigerians have not benefitted from the 19 years of democracy in the country 1999 to 2018.
A citizen’s diary denoted that after watching President Buhari’s Democracy Day Speech on Tuesday, the citizen was stunned at the level of lies contained in just one speech. “Quite possibly Buhari just broke the Guinness World Record on most lied in a speech,” the citizen remarked.
‪It was narrated that Buhari lied by claiming to increase foreign reserves which now accumulated to $47.7 billion. The citizen’s diary remarked that President Buhari   met a foreign reserve of $32 billion on May 29, 2015. Apparently, a marginal increase of about $15 billion was recorded during the period under review when price of crude oil in the international market has risen to $78 per barrel. The citizen’s diary, however, noted: “in three years the President has borrowed ₦11 trillion. This is more than PDP borrowed in 16 years combined. It is from this debt that he has ‘increased’ our reserve.”
‪It was observed that Buhari lied by claiming Integrated Personnel And Payment Information System (IPPIS) as an achievement. The citizen’s diary, however, argued that IPPIS was initiated, introduced and implemented by the Jonathan administration, making references media reports in July 2013.
‪The citizen’s dairy further noted that Buhari lied that he “inherited a weak economy”; remarking that He inherited the third fastest growing economy in the world, according to @CNNMoney. “It was his failure to appoint a cabinet for six months that weakened the economy and led to recession,” the stakeholder argued.
‪It was also noted that Buhari lied when he said Nigerians are enjoying increased power supply. “This is such an obvious lie. He has not built a single power station. The last power station built in Nigeria was built by Jonathan,” the stakeholder declared.
‪The citizen’s diary acknowledged that Buhari lied saying that Boko Haram‘s capacity has been ‘degraded’. It was argued that “This runs counter to the testimony of the #DapchiGirls who testified that Boko Haram now have planes and they land them within Nigeria.” The stakeholder cited reports of March 24, 2018.
Meanwhile, the Boko Haram which the President said had been weakened have continued to engage the Army in gun battle, bombs are still exploding in the North East and rural communities are still being invaded and overrun by the Boko Haram militia who have been waging guerrilla war against the Nigerian government.
‪It was noted that the President lied by saying he has improved the education sector. The citizen’s dairy recalled that “by his third year, Jonathan had built 120 Almajiri schools and 12 universities;” arguing that “issuing licenses to the private sector to build a polytechnic is not an achievement.”  ‪more so, the All Progressives Congress (APC) brought education to the lowest level of development in Nigeria.  The government supported the historic 120 cut off mark for JAMB admission into the university in 2017 in an examination of 400 marks. Subsequent, adjustment was to hold cut off mark at 180 for admission into the university; these scores are clearly within failure margins.

‪The citizen’s dairy also acknowledged that Buhari lied by claiming 7000 Megawatts power. “The devil will have trouble beating that lie. Nigeria under Buhari is not even regularly transmitting half that number. Perhaps he means IGP’s ‘TRANSMISSION’ and not electric power transmission,” the stakeholder emphasized.
Further annotation of the many lies of President Buhari as contained in the citizen’s dairy read:
‪Buhari lied by claiming the construction of the 2nd Niger Bridge as an achievement. No bridge has been constructed. No contract has been awarded. The ₦2 billion released was money earmarked by Jonathan not Buhari.
The stakeholder cited media report in May 2018 where House of Representatives Committee admitted that FG has not awarded second Niger Bridge contract as proof of the lie.
‪Buhari lied by claiming US FAA Category 1 status as an achievement. Nigeria attained US FAA Category 1 on October 23, 2010 under former President Jonathan. Here is the proof – September 2010 – FAA Category 1 Status, Nigeria on Threshold of Aviation Growth and Development.
Buhari lied by claiming the visa on arrival policy as his achievements. This policy was unveiled in 2013 by Olusegun Aganga, Jonathan’s minister of industry. Read about it here in this 2013 interview in All Africa September 24, 2013.
Buhari lied when he said he has reduced inflation. In truth, inflation increased by 50% from 9.8% when Buhari took over in May 2015, to 13.34%. The last time Nigeria enjoyed single digit inflation rate was under ex-President Jonathan.
‪Buhari lied about the so-called unprecedented FIRS tax revenue and customs receipt. When you factor in the devaluation of the Naira by the Buhari government, the revenue made is actually about half the revenues made in 2014 when Naira was ₦150 to $1.
‪Buhari said the ₦2.7 trillion capital expenditure for 2016 and 2017 combined is a record. ₦2.7 trillion is worth $8 billion today. It is not up to the ₦1.6 trillion Jonathan allocated for capital expenditure in 2013 which was equivalent to $9.6 billion.
‪Buhari lied when he said Nigeria is more secure under him. According to the Global Terrorism Index, Nigeria is now the THIRD most terrorised nation in the world. We were number 4 under Jonathan. We have moved 1 step backward.
‪Buhari lied that he has reduced corruption in Nigeria. According to Transparency International, Nigeria is more corrupt under Buhari than it was at ANYTIME during the Jonathan administration. We have moved 12 steps backwards from 136 to 144 on TI’s CPI.
‪Buhari lied about increased inflow of foreign exchange into Nigeria. Whereas Nigeria was the NUMBER ONE destination for FDI in Africa under Jonathan, under Buhari we are not even among the top 10 destinations in Africa. Here‘s proof – “Nigeria is top FDI destination in Africa” (Africa Business magazine).
‪Buhari lied big time when he says he is fighting corruption. Transparency International yesterday revealed that un-budgeted security votes given to APC officials have suddenly increased to $670 million. They suspect that the money is to be used to fund Buhari’s re-election.
‪Buhari lied by saying he will bring criminals to justice. The facts contradict this assertion. Under Buhari, close to 1000 so-called ‘repentant’ Boko Haram terrorists have been released. Herdsmen killing Nigerians have not been prosecuted. Instead they are defended
‪Buhari should not attempt to take any credit for the Not Too Young Bill. He is 75 and does not have a single youth in his cabinet. Not even one. His heart is not in the bill. He was not the promoter. He just wants to reap where he didn’t sow.
‪Generally, Nigerians are groaning in anguish in the years of democracy that many are beginning to consider that the military regimes were better.



			
			Post Views: 
			119