Share this on WhatsApp

12 others dead




By Tom Garba, Yola
Cholera epidemic hits Yobe State in rising figures. Over 223  cases of cholera have been recorded at the General Hospital, Mubi, Yobe State, following sudden outbreak of the epidemic in parts of Mubi North and South.
Principal Medical Officer in charge of the Hospital, Dr. Ezra Sakawa, who disclosed this when he received members of the State executive council on fact finding mission, explained that 12 others died before they are taken to the hospital.
Doctor Sakawa said the hospital also received reported cases of four prisoners from the Mubi prisons and attributed the cause to shortage of water, leading to use of contaminated water by the people.
He stated that the hospital had not recorded any death among those on admission, saying that many have been discharged after being treated of the infection.
Sakawa told the team that the hospital is also having water problems and called for solution as well as medication that will assist those on admission as a result of the outbreak.
Leading the executive members, who comprised of four commissioners, Comrade Ahmad Ibrahim Sajo, appreciated the efforts of the management of the hospital as well as other partners to contain the cholera epidemic in the state, urging  them to ensure that it does not spread to other parts of the state.
Commissioner of Health, Doctor Fatima Atiku, also said that government has dispatched necessary medicament  for those affected and appealed to people to maintain personal hygiene as well as keep their environment clean at all times.
Chairman of Mubi South, Ajayi, described the incident as unfortunate and reiterated the local government’s commitment to ensure adequate provision of portable drinking water through activating boreholes.
The team also visited the Emir of Mubi where talks were held on how to enlighten the people on personal and environmental sanitation to check further spread.
At Yelwa Ward, where the casualty figure was high, 15 water points were identified to be contaminated while people were seen fetching the water.
Worse hit were Yelwa ward, Wuro Patuji, Nassarawo and Sabon Layi in Mubi North and South.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment