Share this on WhatsApp



 
The All Progressives Congress (APC) has rescheduled the governorship primary election in Ekiti State to hold on Friday. The party’s primary election was scuttled by supporters of one of the aspirants who evaded the election venue, threw down the ballot boxes from the table and scattered the ballot papers already in the box on the ground.
The primary election was abruptly halted and declared inconclusive after the violent intrusion by the invaders who claimed that the process was compromised by the electoral umpires.
Meanwhile, it is not certain what security measures have been put in place by the APC leadership in Abuja to forestall the reoccurrence of the last Saturday incidence.
The APC National Working Committee (NWC) , on Monday, vowed that aspirants whose supporters disrupted Saturday’s governorship primary election in Ekiti State would be disqualified from participating in the exercise.
APC National Publicity Secretary, Malam Bolaji Abdullahi, in Abuja, after the presentation of the report by Chairman of the Ekiti Governorship Primary Election Committee, Governor Tanko Al-Makura of Nasarawa State, said that the report contained photographs of individuals that disrupted the exercise, and that the leadership would review the report immediately.
Abdullahi declared: “Governor Tanko Al-Makura gave us a full report orally and submitted a written report of what transpired in Ekiti.
“They also made specific recommendations which gave the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) a couple of options on how to proceed.
“But, what I can assure you is that the individuals that took part in disrupting the exercise in Ekiti have been fully identified and we know the people they represent at the event.
“If we find them to be culpable accordingly, the principal they represent will be disqualified from the exercise and the individuals that participated in disrupting the exercise will be fully prosecuted.”
Gov. Tanko Al-Makura, Chairman of the Ekiti Governorship Primary Election Committee, presented the report of the primary to the leaders at the party’s National Secretariat, Abuja on Monday.
Meanwhile, APC leadership is yet to announce the disqualification of any aspirant in the Ekiti governorship race as a result of the obstruction of the last primary election in the state.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment