Share this on WhatsApp



No fewer than 6,072 residents of Ajeromi local government and Ifelodun local council development area of Lagos have benefitted from a three-day State sponsored free medical expedition programme tagged; ‘The Eko Health Mission Programme.’
The programme was began on Tuesday, 15 May, will end on 30 May, 2018.
According to the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Jide Idris, who made this at a news briefing on Friday in Alausa, Ikeja, residents of the areas benefitted from free health services, including consultation and treatment for common ailments as well as screening for hypertension, diabetes, eye care and provision of eye glasses, dental care, family planning services, HIV counseling and testing, among others.
‘Already, a total of 6,072 Lagosians at Ajeromi and Ifelodun LGA&LCDA have benefitted from these services and we expect more residents to turn out en-mass and take advantage of the opportunity presented by the programme to get expert care for common ailments and other free health services offered through the mission”.
Giving a breakdown of the figures, the Commissioner disclosed that a total of 3,993 people were attended to as General Out-Patients for common ailments and complaints, hypertension and diabetes screening and management; 285 others were also seen and attended to at the Dental Unit; 1,747 people were screened and treated at the Eye unit out of which 548 were given free eye glasses and others screened and counseled at the HIV unit.
Idris, while stating that Eko Health Mission programme which started on Tuesday 15th May at the Ajeromi-Ifelodun local government area secretariat would come to a close on Thursday 30th August, 2018, noted that the medical mission team would visit some other selected local government and local council development area for three days each starting with Ajeromi Local Government.
“The next points of call for the medical mission team are at Iba Local Council Development Area Secretariat Premises on Tuesday 22nd to Thursday 24th May, 2018, Apapa-Iganmu Local Government Secretariat Premises on Wednesday 30th May to Friday 1st of June, 2018 and Oriade Local Council Development Area Secretariat Premises on Tuesday 12th June to Thursday 14th June, 2018 at 9am daily”, the Commissioner said.
He listed other local governments and local council development areas to be visited during the programme to include Oriade, Lagos-Mainland, Lekki, Ejigbo, Ikoyi Obalende, Ikosi-Isheri, Ikosi-Ejirin and Agbado-Oke Odo Local Government and Local Council Development Areas.
Speaking on the importance of the programme, Idris said that the State Government was continuously finding ways to improve the health status of its ever-increasing population adding that the plan for achieving this was based on the Health Policy Thrust of the State which is guided by the noble goal that every Lagosian enjoys unfettered access to qualitative healthcare without any barrier whatsoever.
He disclosed that the strategies adopted in implementing these policies include the introduction and provision of various programs that have direct impact on the Health outcome of Lagosians stressing that these programs are geared towards promoting health, detecting diseases early and offering treatment and rehabilitation.
The Commissioner posited that the overarching goal now is ensuring that residents have access to Universal Health Coverage adding that the Ministry of Health is working tirelessly to develop and implement strategies, programs, interventions and initiatives to improve the health outcome of all Lagosians.
“One of these interventions is the Lagos State Health Mission, which the State Government has used over the years to complement health service delivery in the state. This was put in place, as part of the State Government’s quest to find ways to take healthcare to the grassroots and underserved areas of Lagos State, by addressing pressing health issues of the rural communities in the state”, the Commissioner said.
While noting that the Health Missions are short-term interventions, Idris stated that the programme is geared towards the Strategic Development Plan of ensuring Universal Health Coverage adding that the Missions provide services that take health care to the doorsteps of its citizens at no cost to the people.
“These health missions are significant because they enable this administration to provide healthcare services to all who come irrespective of their age, gender, socioeconomic status and affiliations”, he added.
While reiterating the commitment of the State government to the wellbeing of the residents, Idris urged all residents of Lagos especially residents of areas to be visited to take advantage of the programme and benefit from expert care for common ailments and other free health services including provision free medications, eye glasses and health talk on good oral, personal and environmental hygiene and many more.
The Commissioner noted that the medical teams providing these services are competent professionals committed to ensuring that the mandate of the state government is fully realized.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment