Share this on WhatsApp



 

Saraki declares support for Buhari administration

President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday briefed the President of the Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Right Honourable Yakubu Dogara, on his trip to the United States of America (USA) at the instance of the US President, Donald Trump. The President in a seeming fence-mending effort with the leadership of the National Assembly invited the two Presiding Officers of the Federal Legislature on Sunday for the meeting which held on Monday at the Presidential Villa.
The Senate President and the Speaker arrived the Presidential Villa at about 2.00pm and were received by the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, and the Chief Protocol who led them to the Office of the President.
The President also discussed several other issues which include the 2018 budget which was presented to the legislature in November 2017, the invasion of the Senate by Senator Omo-Agege who led thugs to steal the Mace during Plenary; the travail of Senator Dino Melaye and others.
Saraki in a media interaction in Abuja after the meeting acknowledged that they deliberated on issues relating to the budget, promising that the National Assembly will pass the budget this week. He also said they discussed the invasion of the Senate and the stealing of the Mace, which he said was a national embarrassment and should be given the appropriate attention it deserves. He insisted that there must be strict emphasis on constitutional authority, adding that the attack was not just on the Senate but was about the country.
The Senate President affirmed the lawmakers support for President Buhari. “We are working for the interest of Nigeria. We will support the President,” Saraki declared.
Speaker Dogara also said they discussed the travail of Senator Dino Melaye/ the Speaker protested that nowhere in world do the Police behave like a clan organization. “We are not in military regime, we are in a democracy, a civilian regime, things have to be done according to the rule of law. We are not saying anybody should be protected or defended but once you commit a crime it has to be handled within the ambit of the law,” the Speaker said. He contended that a situation where somebody is wheeled to court does not tell well of the country. The Speaker also said that the President has promised to order proper investigation into the invasion of the National Assembly, assuring that appropriate action will be taken.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment