Share this on WhatsApp





By Lanre Adesanya

The Lagos State Chapter of  the Buhari Youth Organization (BYO), have urged  Nigerians to rally round the nation’s security apparatus, so as to ensure maximum delivery, describing the feats attained by the Nigerian Police Force in swift combating and stemming of the tides of criminal tendencies as an act worthy of commendation.



In a release jointly signed by Comrade Adekunle Aderibigbe the General Secretary and Comrade Abdulwaheed Odunuga the BYO state Coordinator Lagos Chapter, the group commends the Nigeria Police Force and Troops for securing and intensifying efforts targeted against law offenders,which largely led to the arrest of kidnappers, notorious armed robbers and recently the suspected middle-belt killer herdsmen and gun runners.
“We urge Nigerians to support the Security arm of the government in the war against crime, indiscipline and injustice in the country. In time past, we hardly get swift arrest of criminals or those masterminding crimes, but we can now boast of our security men for what we call the Voltrun-Gestapo response to fighting and fishing out of criminals at the source or conceiving point.

We were living witness to it, there was a time  in this country when media reports threats to terrorists by the military and in response, the Boko Haram will ransack a town or village, killing and kidnapping the people while displacing others to reinforce doubts in the minds of Nigerians for the trust in our security forces but all these have been upturned with reinforced, tactical troops with world-class Anti-terrorist weapons.

This contributed to the development that led to the rescue of more than 1,000 women and children by the Nigeria Army from the terrorist’s den.
The Nigeria Police have also open the social responsibility window for complaints through its Police Complaint Rapid Response Unit (PCRRU) where citizens have been able to report illegitimate or illegal cases which has also led to sanctions of affected officers.

Beside, the 43 Mobile Police Force lead by CSP Udu Moses Ogechi, also displayed their humanitarian prowess when they visited Ijamido Children’s Homes at Ota, Ogun state with relief items and materials to show their concerns for the less privilege.
We want to laud the efforts of Commander in Chief of Armed Forces, President Muhammadu Buhari and the Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai for the acquisition of military choppers for the defence and security of the sovereignty and Nigerians.
We also want to urge the National Security Council to invest and deplore more resources into prevention, intelligence and surveillance activities in order to make Nigeria a second to none with the most security sovereignty.
We are also calling on Nigerians to support and assist the agencies with any information that will curtail crime even if it has to do with those that are finding it difficult to associate or those that may be profiled vulnerable anytime soon.













Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment