Share this on WhatsApp



By Esther Egbe
Meet Nigerian-American footballer,Sophia Omotola Omidiji aka ‘Oyinbo girl’. She was one of the Super Falcons the NFF unveiled along with Coach Thomas Dennerby in a recent friendly between Nigeria and France. The “Oyinbo Girl” told National Daily how she got into football and more.
What else can Nigerians know about you?
I was born and raised in Las Vegas, Nevada. My father is a Nigerian who was born and raised in Lagos and my mother is American. I’ve been playing football since I was five in Las Vegas.
How did you get into football?
My family love football so at a young age I went straight into it, starting in the Rainbow Youth Soccer League. I then joined the Las Vegas Premier Soccer league in Las Vegas. I also played for four years at my high school where I’m the record holder for most goals in school history with 98 goals in four season.
How did your parents react when you said football is your chosen career?
My family are very supportive from my parents to grandparents to uncles and aunts. Everyone is very supportive
How did you feel being called to the national team?
It’s a great feeling and the biggest honor to represent your fatherland. Although I didn’t play in the game and we didn’t get the result we wanted. Look I’m 20 years old. It was my first callup and an opportunity to soak in knowledge, experience, and I did just that. “A n kanju labe ‘gbona” meanibg: Don’t risk your palate drinking hot soup) . I look forward to future call-ups to contribute my quota to the success of the team.
Any regrets as a footballer?
None at all. Football, like life, has been filled with lessons. What you do with setbacks is learn, evolve and grow. I come from a tough family where we are never scared; we don’t quit; we don’t back down. We’re taught to dream and dream big; and people don’t have to understand your dreams; it’s not meant for them; it’s yours. And often times you see people with little to no vision talking. I just ignore them.
I’m very grateful to everyone in Nigeria that’s been supportive of me from Lagos to Kaduna. I’m grateful to you all. Thank you for the love that you all show.
What do you think about your coach?
I think he’s just getting started. Things take time. I didn’t get to play but as widely reported I did well at trainings with him. His, our and the NFF’s objective is to make our team dominant in world football the way we are in African football. So let’s give him time to adjust, implement his plans and give him support. He wasn’t hired to win the Nations Cup…we’ve always won that year after year. He’s here to help us win outside of Africa.
What’s your educational qualification?
I ’m a college student already earned my associates degree. I am steps away from earning my bachelors degree. Then I’m going for an MBA or branch into law. But education isn’t an option; it’s a necessity. Coming from the household I come from- especially as a woman- I value my education. Football is a passion. Ask any retired female football player and they’ll tell you, “Girlie, get your education.
Have you read about yourself in the newspapers, and how do you feel?
Yes since I was eight appeared in papers in Las Vegas so it’s not something I clip now. When I make the papers for being in the World Cup with the falcons I’ll clip that.
Where did you start playing from?
I played high school football for Sierra Vista High School ,where i was the all-time leading goal scorer with 98 goals in four seasons including scoring 38 goals in her final season. I played at the school including the school’s first ever regional/State/NIAA Southern Nevada final.I also played club soccer with Las Vegas Premier Sports Academy for coach Eyal Dahan.
Is this your first call up to the national team?
I have been previously called up to the Falconets team for the FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup qualifiers in 2015. But has been called up to the senior women’s team set up for the first time to take part in the game against France.
I played for the Nigerian U-20 Women National team and is signed to Dutch Division and also Club S.B.V. Excelsior after completing a switch from KAA Gent in Belgium in June 2017.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment