Share this on WhatsApp



 
The number of lives lost in the attack on Birnin Gwari government area of Kaduna state by armed bandits at the weekend has risen to 45, Austin Iwar, the State Commissioner of Police has disclosed.
The incident occurred less than 48 hours after Ibrahim Idris, Inspector-General of Police (IGP) and Mohammed Mohammed, General Officer Commanding (GOC), 1 division, Nigerian army visited the area.
Idris had ordered the immediate deployment of additional 200 police personnel to the community when he visited, but the heightened security did not stop the suspected bandits from staging the attack.
Recalled that armed bandit had reportedly attacked the village on Saturday, burning houses and shooting sporadically.
Meanwhile, Nasir el-Rufai, the state governor, has commiserated with the people of Birnin Gwari, assuring them that the engagement between the state and federal governments on the issue, had yielded positive result.
According to him, President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the establishment of a permanent army battalion in Birnin Gwari.
“The Kaduna state government has received with sadness reports of the murder of our citizens by armed bandits in Birnin Gwari. The government has sent a message of condolence to the people of Birnin Gwari Emirate,” he said in a statement issued on his behalf by Samuel Aruwan, his spokesman.
“Kaduna state government is deeply committed to overcoming the unfortunate criminality and banditry being carried out against innocent citizens in Birnin Gwari local government.
“The engagements between the state and federal governments have yielded results. President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the establishment of a permanent battalion of the Nigerian Army in the Birnin Gwari general area.
“The new security arrangements also involve policing. The Inspector General of Police has already announced the creation of the Birnin Gwari Police Area Command and two new Divisional Police Headquarters.
“The State Emergency Management Agency, has also been directed to provide relief materials with immediate effect to the affected communities.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment