Share this on WhatsApp



The Christian Welfare Initiative (CWI), leading a coalition of Faith based organizations, (FBOs) is mobilizing a strong all inclusive coalition network that will lead a nationwide campaign to draw attention of government to several security threats that are likely to lead to anarchy if urgent steps are not taken to contain them immediately.
Professor Magnus Atilade, president of CWI, at a media briefing in Lagos on the state of the nation, disclosed a planned nationwide campaign against failure of government to improve welfare of citizens and condemnation of the incessant killings by the Boko Haram insurgents and Fulani herdsmen slaughtering innocent Nigerians.
Atilade had decried the inability of the government to position the country’s security machinery to protect life and property of all citizens in Nigeria by systematically uprooting the insurgents rather than being on the defensive all the time.
On the state of the health sector, Atilade advocated proper funding of the sector to help address the continuous strike actions in the industry.
“Health care base should be expanded to include provision of healthcare by regulated practitioners of complementary alternative medicines, CAM, and traditional medicine practitioners”, he said.
On education, he advised that compulsory and free education should be a matter of government policy for every Nigerian from primary to secondary, while tertiary education should be subsidized and standards improved across all levels.
Atilade lamented poor welfare of average Nigerian and challenged government on the provision of subsidized housing to all Nigerians, as well as improved and highly subsidized transport sector.
“Nigeria must be rearranged Into regional structure and unviable states re absorbed into regions, State Police should be created and manned by indigenes while bicameral legislature expunged because of its high cost while independent candidates be encouraged to stand for elections”, he said.
Atilade, warned that except all these issues threatening national cohesion the country would continue to suffer underdevelopment and eventual collapse.
He said that based on these issues threatening national unity, a new coalition will be unveiled soon to launch a national campaign and education the citizens to agitate for change.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment