Share this on WhatsApp

6 deals that will change the football world

With the transfer news coming thick and fast now that the summer window has opened early, there’s already been plenty to write about with regards to players on the move ahead of next season.

Fabinho has been confirmed by Liverpool in a move from Monaco, and it seems only a matter of time before Arsenal get some serious business done for as many as three new players for £75million in the form of Sokratis Papastathopoulos, Bernd Leno and Caglar Soyuncu, according to the Sun.

So what else do the Premier League big boys have in the works?

Manchester United have shown they’re not afraid to spend big in recent times, bringing in Paul Pogba for a record-breaking £89m two years ago and continuing to recruit big names like Romelu Lukaku, Nemanja Matic and Alexis Sanchez.

With crazy money going on the likes of Neymar and Philippe Coutinho abroad, English sides surely know they need to step it up, so here’s a list of recent rumours that suggest we’re going to see a few of our clubs break their transfer records in the near future…

1. Gareth Bale to Manchester United (£130m)

AS have reported that Manchester United are in for Gareth Bale after his superb showing in Real Madrid’s Champions League final win over Liverpool, though his club will ask for £130m.

This would break two transfer records – as the £89m club-record fee BBC Sport claim they paid for Pogba in 2016 is also the all-time Premier League record fee paid for a player.

Big-name attacking players like Bale look precisely what’s needed to close the gap on Manchester City next season and one can imagine United should have the money to get this done.

Bale’s also given them a fair bit of help, to be fair, as he told BT Sport straight after the Champions League final that he wasn’t happy at his lack of games and that he’d have to consider his future this summer…

2. Alisson to Liverpool (£80m)

Speaking of the Champions League final, it’s become ever clearer after that defeat against Real Madrid that Liverpool urgently need a new goalkeeper.

According to the Times, they’ve got a decent one in mind as they target £80m-rated Roma shot-stopper Alisson this summer.

Were the Reds to pull this off, that would beat the club-record £75m BBC Sport report they paid Southampton to sign defender Virgil van Dijk back in January.

With money to burn, or so it seems, £80m on Alisson seems well worth the investment to bring in a genuine top class ‘keeper after being let down so many times by Loris Karius and Simon Mignolet.

This is another that could break two transfer records as it would be the highest fee in sterling paid for a goalkeeper, according to BBC Sport‘s report that £36m Ederson currently holds that record.


3. Robert Lewandowski to Chelsea (£100m)

Recently linked as a potential £100m target for Chelsea by the Telegraph, it does look like Bayern Munich star Robert Lewandowski will be one of the big names on the move this summer.

Alvaro Morata urgently needs replacing at Stamford Bridge, so £100m on one of the best strikers in the world seems a decent price to pay to finally solve that centre-forward problem.

His agent has been quoted in Bild as saying he wants to leave Bayern and that his club are aware of the situation, so this looks a real opportunity for Chelsea.

If this does go through it would eclipse the club-record fee of £60m that BBC Sport claim Chelsea paid for Alvaro Morata last year by some way.

4. Riyad Mahrez to Manchester City (£75m)

It’s quite hard to believe, but Manchester City’s current club record transfer fee paid is still only £57m, which they forked out for Aymeric Laporte in January, according to BBC Sport.

That could be about to change pretty soon, however, with the club making progress on an exciting deal to sign Riyad Mahrez from Leicester City for £75m, according to the Sun.

The Algeria international seems ideal for City as they look to add more depth to their attack, and it’s frightening to imagine how good Pep Guardiola’s side will be with him alongside the likes of Raheem Sterling, Leroy Sane and Sergio Aguero.

Mahrez has won the Premier League and PFA Player of the Year with Leicester and that means a big price tag is no surprise, but it should be simple enough for City to pay.


5. Anthony Martial to Tottenham (£70m)

After a difficult season at Manchester United, Anthony Martial’s future is in doubt as he’s made available for £70m this summer, according to the Sun.

The Daily Mirror claim Tottenham are interested, so that would mean having to break the transfer record they broke last summer with the signing of Davinson Sanchez, according to the Guardian.

This could be a fee worth paying for Spurs, with Martial showing himself to be one of the finest young players in the world on his day, even if it hasn’t quite worked out for him at Old Trafford.

One imagines Mauricio Pochettino could improve the Frenchman significantly, so fans will be hoping this one can go through, while many United fans will be cursing their luck if it does.

6. Kalidou Koulibaly to Arsenal (£105m)

This would be a bit of a surprise one, but it has been claimed by the National that Arsenal are among the clubs in for Napoli defender Kalidou Koulibaly.

There’s no doubt the Gunners could do with improving at the back, and Koulibaly is one of the best in Europe in his position at the moment.

Still, RAI Sport (translated by the Metro) state that Napoli want a whopping £105m for the Senegal international.

That would almost double the club-record £56m that BBC Sport claim Arsenal paid for Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang in January, so might be one of the unlikelier rumours on this list.

It’s worth noting, though, that that move for Mesut Ozil in 2013 came fairly out of the blue and the club may know they need to spend this kind of money to compete now as they embark on a new era post-Arsene Wenger.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment