Share this on WhatsApp



The Lagos State Police Command on Monday evening allayed fears of residents following apprehension making rounds on social media that females around Ikorodu area should stay indoors and refrain from moving around town on Tuesday, May 8, 2018, for the Oro Day festival.
In a joint statement by the State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, and the Ayangburen of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Shotobi, after a meeting, the Command assured the women folk of their safety and right of freedom of movement, blaming the report that went viral on mischief makers.
“The attention of the Lagos State Police Command has been drawn to the news making the rounds on the social media that the female gender is forbidden to be seen outside their homes or move around the town with effect from tomorrow 8/05/2018 being the day set aside as ORO DAY.
“In view of the above, the CP Lagos called for a meeting attended by the Ayangburen of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Shotobi, Palace Chiefs and the Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs, Alhaji Muslim Folami.
“The Oba stated during the meeting that it is unthinkable for a man with his level of exposure to do or say anything that would be seen as discriminatory against the female gender. He acknowledged that the festival is an age long tradition of Ikorodu people which had been even before he was born. He added that the festival would hold without denying the female folks their right of freedom of movement,” CP Edgal said.
The statement also quoted the Commissioner of Police as saying that the Command will not tolerate any discriminatory tradition against the female gender, warning that the Command would deal ruthlessly with anybody who hides under the guise of custom or tradition to forment trouble in the state.
Imohimi, therefore, enjoined women to go about their lawful business without let or hindrance.
The meeting ended with a joint press statement, assuring the people of Ikorodu that the festival would be peaceful.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment