Share this on WhatsApp



The Deputy Governor of Ekiti State, Professor Kolapo Olusola, on Tuesday, May 8, 2018 wo the primary election of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) held in Ado-Ekiti. Accordingly, olisola emerges the party’s candidate for the Ekiti State governorship election scheduled on July 14, 2018.
Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, Chairman of the Election Committee, announcing the result declared that Olusola polled 1190 votes, while the defeated former Minister of State for Works, Dayo Adeyeye, polled 771 votes, seven voted were voided. Governor Okowa said 1968 delegates were accredited for the primary election. The total valid votes recorded were 1961.
The primary election drew delegated from the 26 local government areas of the state; over 2,100 delegates participated in the voting exercise.
The delegates were classified to include 1,585 statutory PDP members, and 547 National Ad-Hoc Committee Members.
One of the governorship aspirants, Senator Abiodun Olujimi, earlier on Tuesday, stepped down from the race and aligned with Prince Adedayo Adeyeye to challenge Olusola for the PDP ticket. Olusola is being sponsored by Governor Ayodele Fayose.
Governor Okowa commended the aspirants for displaying sportsmanship in the contest and allowing the process to be peaceful. The Delta Governor said the contenders agreed to accept the result even before it was announced. “Adeyeye came to me after the announcement of the result and told that he was satisfied with the result and he had to leave,” Governor Okowa had declared.
Governor Fayose had decided stay away from the primary election to allow peace to prevail during the polls. The governor noted that he would make necessary sacrifice eliminate all forms of confusion and allow for level playing ground for all the aspirants.
PDP is now set for the July 14 governorship election in Ekiti State, while the APC candidate is being awaited in the Friday rescheduled primary election of the party. The Saturdayprimary was disrupted by supporters of one of the aspirants who destroyed the ballot boxes and papers.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment