Share this on WhatsApp



 
Davido has finally spoken on why he has not recorded a song with ‘Starboy’ Wizkid. The assurance crooner, who won big for his label at the 2018 Headies award, said a collaboration with Wizkid would not be planned but it will have to come naturally in order to have the best. According to him, this would only happen when the time was right. Davido revealed this on Soundcity Fm.
He said, “On my collaboration with Wizkid, I feel like if it will happen, it will happen naturally. If we plan it, we might not do our best. Whenever the time is right, it will happen”. On why his record label, Davido Music Worldwide (DMW) has no female presence he said: “If there was a female, we will be too overprotective”
In other news, Davido has expressed personal frustrations with his Son of Mercy EP declaring that the project was wack.
In a recent interview with Native Magazine, conversations came up surrounding the reception of the body of work and the singer said, “Nah, the EP was shit. The songs were not picked by me, I wasn’t in the right place.”
It will be recalled that following his deal with Sony Music, the artist had put out the Son of Mercy EP in 2016 which featured a collaboration with American singer, Tinashe.
He continues, “I knew myself. I was like, ‘this is not Davido’. My career has always been on fire at all times, [‘till then] there was never a time that I didn’t have a hit out, and that time I didn’t have a hit.
So I called Sony up, and I told them look, you have to let me do what I want to do. That’s what inspired Back to Basics.”
The singer who recently got named the Artist of the year at the Headies 2018 recounted efforts leading to his recent success.
“First, I had to stop making the music that they (SONY) wanted me to make. So I came back to Nigeria to record a couple of songs. That’s when I recorded ‘IF’ with Tekno”, he added.
Davido was to later have a irrepressible year filled with hit records, successful tours and ground breaking feats.
Reflecting on the influence of singer and producer, Tekno in the new direction he had to take following his return, Davido says, “It’s funny, until then, Tekno used to always tell me ‘David I get beat o, I get beat o.’ This life”. He concluded.
If was to become the anthem for 2017, as its release spurned a movement that a year down the line, the success of his follow up singles have been built on the foundation laid by the sound.
David Adedeji Adeleke, better known by his stage name Davido, is a Nigerian singer, songwriter and record producer. His 2011 single “Dami Duro” was well-received throughout Nigeria.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment