Share this on WhatsApp



Mrs. Dolapo Osinbajo, wife of the Vice President, and Minister of Communications Technology, Barrister Adebayo Shittu, will lead high-profile guests who have confirmed they would attend the premiere of Airtel Touching Lives season four.
The premiere, which is billed to hold on Sunday, 3rd June, 2018, at the Eko Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, is also expected to have Senator Robert Ajayi Boroffice, Chairman Senate Committee on Science and Technology and Senator Solomon Olamilekan, Deputy Chairman, Senate Committee on Communications.
According to Airtel, Hon. Saheed Akinade Fijabi, Chairman, House Committee on Communications; Hon. Ujam Chukwuemeka, Deputy Chairman, House Committee on Communications and Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission, Senator, Olabiyi Durojaiye, amongst many others, will also grace the premiere.
Captains of industry, heads of agencies, non-governmental organisations, philanthropists and notable media proprietors are also expected to attend.
Airtel Touching Lives is an inspiring corporate social responsibility initiative that seeks to offer practical relief, succour, hope, opportunities and credible platforms to liberate and empower the underprivileged, disadvantaged and hard-to-reach persons in the society.
The activities of Airtel Touching Lives are recorded and produced for national television with a view to promoting the spirit of giving, self-sacrifice and love among Nigerians.
Speaking at a press conference in December to announce the kick-off of nominations for Season 4 of the programme, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Airtel Nigeria, Mr. Segun Ogunsanya, said the company is committed to helping the less privileged in the society in line with its vision of creating empowerment opportunities and making life better for Nigerians.
“Together, we all can make our society a better place if we join hands and collaborate to uplift the downtrodden around us.
“While the Government and Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) cannot do it all, we have a responsibility to contribute our quota to making Nigeria a better place for all,” he said.
He urged Nigerians to participate in the 4th edition of the Touching Lives programme by nominating causes and persons who require help.
According to him, “the nomination process is simple. Once you nominate an individual or cause, our team will review and assess the situation and determine if a follow-up visit will be required
“You can nominate individuals or projects in your communities by dialling 367 or by sending an SMS to the Shortcode, 367. Also mail can be sent to touchinglives@ng.airtel.com”
Since Airtel launched the  Touching Lives initiative three years ago, it has achieved remarkable successes having restored hope of despaired individuals and families, saved many from the throes of death and empowered many underprivileged Nigerians.
One of the major highlights in Season 3 of Airtel Touching Lives was the story of Olusegun Aina family, who lost three children and was rendered homeless by a devastating fire incident. Through the Touching Lives platform, Airtel built and donated a multi-million Naira, ultra-modern 2-bedroom apartment for the family and also paid for all outstanding medical bills incurred by the surviving family members.
In 2017, Airtel Touching Lives was voted the most outstanding intervention in Stakeholders’ Management by the jury of the prestigious Sustainability, Enterprise and Responsibility Awards (SERAS).
Aside Touching Lives, Airtel Nigeria has continuously embarked on several philanthropic initiatives aimed at impacting lives positively. Some of these key CSR initiatives include the Adopt-a-School programme, Employee Volunteer Scheme, Airtel Five Days of Love Christmas programme and other interventions on health and the environment.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment