Share this on WhatsApp
The Lagos State Police Command on Tuesday paraded suspected armed criminals arrested at different locations in the state at the Command’s premises in Ikeja.
 Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Edgal Imohimi, highlighted: “on the 9th of May, 2018, at about 2300hrs, O/C FSARS Ikeja, Lagos CSP Ahmed Sanusi that some cultists later identified as Eiye confraternity members popularly called the “Birds” were at a location within Jakande Estate, Lekki, Lagos. Based on the information, a crack team of FSARS Operatives and the command’s undercover operatives were deployed to the scene which led to the arrests of the suspects as they were about to set out for a mission to attack rival cult group”.
The suspects were said to have confessed to be members of the notorious Eiye confraternity cult group a.k.a the “Bird that have made life a nightmare for the inhabitants of Jakande Estate and Lekki area of Lagos State. The ring leader of the notorious Eiye cult group, Andrew Awalebe, popularly called Flying Bird, was said to also admit that he was initiated into the group in 1990 by one Efrebor.  He confessed to be a two time Ex-convict and had at one time being charged to Ebute-Meta Magistrate Court as a result of inter-cult clashes in Ajah/Lekki areas in which many lives were lost.
The CP further disclosed a case of man’s inhumanity to man reported by one Chinonye Iyonetu ‘m’ 8 years old against one Charity Iyonetu ‘f’, 45 years of Animal Kingdom, close to Seme Border, Lagos.
“The complainant alleged that the suspect is the elder sister to his father. That sometime in 2016, the suspect came to their village, Agbaai, Nkota LGA of Imo State and brought him to Lagos after his mother abandoned him and left to an unknown place. He stated that the suspect always maltreat him accusing him of being a wizard,” he narrated.
However, the ordeal of the little boy came to the fore when on 09/05/2018, at about 0900hrs, the suspect use horse whip a.k.a Koboko to flog the child, inflicting injuries all over his body. She thereafter locked him in her one room apartment with his two hands tied behind his back and left to her shop. The survivor was crying and shouting for help which made one Peter Aluku to call the Police. When the Police team arrived, they broke the door of the house and rescued the child. According to Mr. Edgal the said suspect would be charged to the Special and Sexual Offences Court as soon as investigation is concluded. 
“In the same vein, on the 11th May, 2018 at about 2000hrs, one Aliu Bashiru ‘m’, a commercial motorcycle rider of No. 18 Jayeoba Shasha Road, carried two passengers, namely, Chikwo Okechukwu ‘m’ and Mathew Adigo ‘m’ unknown to him that they are robbers. When they got to Oremeji Bus Stop in Shasha, the robbers brought out a hammer and struck the rider on the head. The rider collapsed and they dispossessed him of his boxer motorcycle with Reg. No. WDE-459-UY”.
“At this point, the mob was attracted to the happening between the robbers and the rider who had already passed out. So they descended on the thieves and beat them up mercilessly”. They were however saved from being lynched by a police team stationed close to the scene. 
In addition, on the 13th of May, 2018, at about 0715hrs, information received from a good Nigerian revealed that a man suspected to be an armed robber was seen in Alapere/Ketu traffic jam with berretta pistol robbing innocent citizens/motorists of their phones and other valuables.  Investigation into the case led to the arrest of one Ifeanyi Okeke ‘m’ with a toy gun that has the semblance of a berretta pistol. But during interrogation, he confessed that he is an Ex-convict of a Ghana prison. He added that he is using the toy gun to intimidate and rob passersby of their valuables. He made mention of other gang members still at large.
In another development, on the 12/05/2015, at about 1230hrs, the Police Commenced stop and search at the gate of Igando Primary School for the ward congress election. A group of boys carrying a bag were stopped. The bag was searched and a locally made pistol was recovered from one Akowonjo Damilare ‘m’ two cartridges were recovered from one kazeem Onillosi ‘m’ and sixteen (16) cartridges, from odumewu Oluwatobiloba ‘m’.
 In a similar vein, at Abati Primary School one Alade Fatai ‘m’, Sheu Hassand and Tunde Adeboye ‘m’ were arrested with two axes and one cutlass during the APC ward Congress election. Suspects would be chargedc to court accordingly. It may interest you to know that Azeez Idris is the leader of the Eiye Confraternity in Ilasan. He confessed to the killings of many citizens in that location. He told the police that, once he puts on his red on red regalia it means that somebody must be killed. Also arrested is the Capo of the Aiye group by name Andrew Awalebi. Suspects will be charged to court as soon as investigations are concluded.
Edgal emphasized that on Makoko case On 10/05/2018 at about 1415hrs, the men from Lagos State Task Force on land Grabbers, assisted by Officers of the Nigeria Police Force, on an assignment to investigate the activities of the land grabbers were attacked at Ilaje Community of Makoko in Yaba, by suspected land grabbers, during the incident, three causalities were recorded. However, a high powered investigation has commenced into the incident. Officials of the Lagos State Ministry of Lands and Environment, member of the Nigeria Police Force attached to the Task Force and prominent members of the Makoko Community where the incident happened have been invited for questioning. The outcome of the investigation will be made known to the public in due course. On 12th may, 2018 during the Local Government Party Congress by All Progressive Congress (APC) at Central Community Primary School, Oniwaya, Agege, Lagos. The Election was allegedly factionalized which led to protest. Consequently, some disgruntled ward members protested their non-inclusion in the electoral process. However, during the ensuing pandemonium, gun shots were heard from a distance. When the noise died down, one Nurudeen Lanlese ‘M’ aged 40years was found in a pool of blood. One Bosun Adigun ‘m’, Sabitu Kamorudeen ‘m’ and Semiu Ogunbono ‘m’ who were suspects in the murder were arrested and will be charged to court after investigation. 


Share this on WhatsApp