Share this on WhatsApp

as party inaugurates council excos

By Lanre Adesanya

Irate party members of the All Progressives Congress from Apapa Local Government, have protested the alleged substitution of their choice party chairman on the list of those inaugurated today.

The protesters wielding placards with different inscriptions, lament what they referred to as a deliberate attempt by the new party chairman (Balogun)to subvert the will of the people.

Some of the placards have boldly written on them the following inscriptions: “Do not cause chaos,we don’t need it here in Apapa’, ‘No to tyranny’, Make our votes count’, ‘Follow the rule of law/ party and let peace reign in Apapa’,’On congress we stand’, ‘Oyinbo is our party chairman’, ‘Tunde Balogun don’t divide the party'”.

The spokesman of the protesters Mr. Olaolu Omosuyi,noted that this clear cut day light robbery was allegedly perpetuated by the chairman who was from their area.

As their choice Mr. Taiwo Adeleye’s name was substituted with Fatai Sanni, despite the fact that Taiwo’s name was mentioned as delegate from Apapa at the State Congress, that brought Balogun on board having been duly elected at the local government congress.

“Taiwo Adeleye is our duly elected chairman not Fatai Sanni who was announced by Tunde Balogun.

“We had our congress properly and the reports were filed to the appropriate quarters, I see no reason why they would waste our time for a congress and having elected our choice Tunde Balogun would decide to change it.

“Fatai Sanni knowing fully well that he is not eligible, did not even purchase the form having spent twelve years as party chairman,.

” We have come to cry to our leaders for them to intervene, Asiwaju said the old hands should allow the new breed, Fatai is not our choice in Apapa.




However the  All Progressives Congress party chairman in Lagos State Mr. Tunde Balogun, has urged all party chairmen in the 20 Local Government Areas and 37 Local Council Development Areas to embark on massive membership drive and also reconcile aggrieved members.
The new party chairman gave the charge earlier today, while inaugurating the council chairmen of the party at the APC state secretariat at Acme.


According to Balogun all chairmen inaugurated here have emerged through democratic processes of congress to show that APC is truly democratic.


“I implore you all to make membership drive in your area needed attention,mobilize more people to register and as well claim their Permanent Voters Card.

“So as to prepare them for voting in your area, most especially ahead of the general election we are going to be face to face with our real opposition then, many are still unaware of the development.




Balogun also urged them to let benefits cut across the divides, so as to ensure the party’s victory in the general elections.

He however, urged the chairmen to immediately replicate the exercise at their 57 councils stead.

Barrister  Ademola Sodiq the APC state Legal Adviser administered oath of office and oath of allegiance  on the elected Chairmen thereby making them officially recognized council chairmen.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment