Share this on WhatsApp

A former lawmaker in the second republic, Junaid Mohammed has alleged that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is “at war’ with the Department of State Services (DSS) as well as a ‘terrible confusion’ at the National Intelligence Agency (NIA).

Mohammed said this on Monday while speaking on Channels Television programme monitored by National Daily.

He featured on the programme alongside Oby Ezekwesili, former minister of finance, and Fetus Keyamo, spokesman of Buhari’s re-election campaign.

Mohammed said the “infighting” has marred the current administration’s fight against corruption.
“Today, the DG of DSS is not on speaking terms with the person he is supposed to coordinate some of these things with,” he said.

“The EFCC is at war with the DSS. The NIA is in terrible confusion that the DG does not even go to his office, he has a new office in the presidency.”

But reacting to the allegations, Festus Keyamo described his claims as lies and unfounded. “It is not true. These are gentlemen I know, they talk,” he said, adding that: “These are things we push into the public space that we are not sure of. What facts do you have to back it up?”

He said the perceived bickering between the security agencies is only a “difference in perspective,” describing the disagreement between the agencies is a “credit” to the government.
 
“The president allows the agencies to do their work. The SSS is not looking at the body language of the president that he has appointed this person, so I will cover whatever he has done because the president wants him to be in office,” he said.

Ibrahim Magu, acting chairman of the EFCC, remains unconfirmed as chairman, partly because the senate said a DSS report indicted him of some practices which they said makes him unfit for the office.

The EFCC and the DSS have also had misunderstandings, particularly when operatives of the latter agency prevented the arrest of Ayo Oke, sacked director-general of the NIA, and Ita Ekpeyong, the immediate past director-general of the DSS.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment