Share this on WhatsApp



The Presidency has again pitched into former President Olusegun Obasanjo and his former party PDP–both whom were described as dexterous at subverting democracy.
President Muhammadu Buhari had last week accused Obasanjo’s administration of wasting $16bn on power projects without any visible result.
While he didn’t mention the former president’s name in the latest missile, Buhari’s media adviser Sheu Garba alluded to facts that pointed at Obsanjo when he was in office.
Sheu, in a document entitled “The real price of change-the-change campaign (2)” made available to journalists in Abuja, said that the PDP under Obasanjo showed aptitude in the toppling of elected state governments using the police and secret service under their control.
But, he said, none of such absurdities recorded when the PDP was in charge of the country had happened under President Buhari.
“A five-man legislature met at 6am and ‘impeached’ ex-Governor (Joshua) Dariye in Plateau; 18 members out of 32 removed ex-Governor (Rashidi) Ladoja of Oyo State from office; in Anambra, APGA’s ex-Governor (Peter) Obi was equally impeached at 5 am by members who did not meet the two-thirds required by the constitution.
“His offence was that he refused to inflate the state’s budget. The lawmakers had reportedly met with representatives of the President in Asaba, Delta State and then accompanied to Awka by heavy security provided by the police Mobile Unit.
“The PDP President at that time had reportedly told Obi to forget re-election in 2007 if he did not join the PDP because he (the President) would not support a non-PDP member.
“In Ekiti, Governor Ayodele Fayose, in his first term, faced allegations of financial corruption and murder. Following the failure to heed the instruction of the Presidency to impeach only Fayose and spare the deputy, Madam Olujimi, now a senator, the PDP President declared that there was a breakdown of law and order in the state and declared a state of emergency.
“He appointed Brig-Gen. Adetunji Olurin (retd.) as the sole administrator of the state on October 19, 2006.
“In an earlier incident in Anambra, it took an insider collaboration to thwart the unseating of Governor (Chris) Ngige by a powerful thug sponsored by the PDP administration.”
He noted the PDP is indicating their boredom with Buhari’s meticulous observance of the constitution by calling for a return to the old order.
Shehu wondered what pushed the PDP to write a letter to the United Nations, laying false claims to constitutionality and alleging that democracy is presently under threat.
He described his concerns for the poor citizens and the nation as among Buhari’s greatest assets.
“This is why he has led the country through difficult changes, such as the increase in the pump price of fuel and the landmark steps to stabilise the naira, at grave risk to political capital, but measures that had become necessary for the benefit of the nation,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment