Share this on WhatsApp


The Peoples’ Democratic Party has described the recent corruption allegations levelled against the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan by Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo as baseless and unsubstantiated.

Kola Ologbondiyan, spokesman of the party while reacting to the allegations said Osinbajo should note that propaganda and false accusations were not only abhorred by the Holy Books, but would also not deliver the APC and “its incompetent administration from the resolve of Nigerians to kick them out, come 2019.

Recall that Osinbajo at the weekend had issued a statement detailing alleged corruption in the last administration of President Goodluck Jonathan.

Ologbodiyan in a statement disclosed that Nigerian should note that all the assertions by the vice-president, especially on the performance of the Buhari administration as well as his allegations and bandying of figures against the opposition, have remained unsubstantiated.
 
“We note that Vice-President Osinbajo has refused to heed wise counsel and accord respect to his office by desisting from such unguarded comments only because he has been sucked in and entangled in the propaganda, deception, impunity and sleaze that not only brought the administration to power, but have become its trademark in the last three years,” he said in a statement.
 
“Moreover, Nigerians have noted that Prof. Osinbajo, in his ‘sanctimony,’ has been silent on the exposed corruption under the Buhari administration, including the leaked memo detailing N9tn corrupt oil contracts at the NNPC, exposed sleaze in oil subsidy deals, diversion of Internally Displaced Persons’ intervention funds.
 
“These include the probe of a misappropriated N18bn in the National Emergency Management Agency under his direct supervision as well as other looting in government agencies such as the National Health Insurance Scheme.

Ologbondiyan urged Osinbajo to take heed, retreat to the inner room, and conduct a soul searching. “The Vice-President is also ominously silent about the prevailing high-handedness and human rights violations and the aloofness of government resulting in daily bloodletting in various parts of our country.”





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment