Share this on WhatsApp



The Federal High Court, Abuja, has concluded Olisa Metuh stage-managed his fall as he walked towards the dock so he could stall his N400 million corruption trial that resumed Monday.
So the court on Wednesday ruled for continuation of the trial on Thursday.
The PDP former publicity secretary is facing a seven-count charge before the court for the amount he allegedly collected form ex-NSA Sambo Dasuki.
When the case resumed Tuesday, Metuh did not appear in court, and his defence team led by Emeka Etiaba said his client’s health condition worsened because of the fall.
They then applied for an indefinite adjournment of the trial.
But the prosecution objected to the application, following which the court adjourned until Wednesday to rule on it.
When the court resumed on Wednesday presiding Justice Okon Abang ruled that the trial should continue since there is still no valid evidence before the court for the defendant’s absence.
According to the judge, the suspect fell on his own while walking towards the dock, after ignoring the directives of the court to sit for his trial.
“And while on the floor, he made series of groans which stopped the proceedings making the court room look like an accident scene,” Abang said.
“There was no attempt even by those he came with to raise him, which also delayed the proceeding for 29 minutes.
“However, the court doctor was not in the court to see what transpired, so how did she know there was an emergency?
“And as a court doctor, you are expected to have invitation to attend to emergencies, so who gave her the order and who is she to tell the court that the defendant was in need of medical attention?
“It is a complete disregard and disobedience to the court and so the defendant has jumped bail, as there is no reasonable application for the defendant’s absence.
“And as such, the trial will continue 24th May 2018 by 1p.m,” he said.
Metuh has been coming to trial all patched up, and sometimes, on a stretcher for weeks now.
And the judge has always insisted it is all play-acting.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment