Share this on WhatsApp



Embattled Senator Ovie Omo-Agege may be facing more troubles in the next few months over his invasion of the Senate on Wednesday, April 18, 2018, disruption of plenary and leading hoodlums to steal the Mace, the symbol of authority of the National Assembly.
Omo-Agege may not be finding events that may be forthcoming in the months ahead interesting as he could be facing investigation by the executive and possible prosecution as well as possible expulsion from the Senate where his case is also being investigated by the Upper Chamber.
Some stakeholders has argued that the invasion of the Senate and stealing of the Mace is a treasonable crime. They maintained that the act is tantamount to overthrowing a constituted authority or a government.
Meanwhile, the embattled senator is still serving 90 days suspension, though, he challenged the decision in court and got an injunction; but the judiciary cannot usurp or obstruct the powers of the legislature.
However, the Senate may be taking a step further to expel the senator from the remaining session of the Eight Assembly.
The National Assembly was thrown into pandemonium on Wednesday, Wednesday, April 18, 2018, when suspended Senator, representing Delta Central in the National Assembly, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, stormed the Plenary Session of the Senate with thugs who carried the Mace, which the symbol of authority of the Senate, and ran out of the Upper Chambers, momentarily obstructing the legislative session.
The senator had arrived the national Assembly in company of several aides and a group of unidentifiable thugs who forced their way into the Upper Chambers of the National Assembly while the Senate was in plenary and violently ran away with the Mace, injuring one of the Sergeants-at-arms on duty.
The Senate, however, replaced the stolen mace with a new one to enable the lawmakers continue the plenary session.
The senators described the action of the hoodlums as treasonable felony and requested the Nigeria Police to recover the stolen mace within 24 hours.
Senator Omo-Agege, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was suspended from the Senate for 90 days following his incisive statement on the amendment of the Electoral Act by the National Assembly.
The Police had temporarily arrested Senator Omo-Agege over the stolen mace from the Senate on Wednesday and was released later the same day.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment