LEFT TO RIGHT: Director, CFAO NIPEN, Pastor Sola Ajidagba; Finance Director, CFAO NIPEN, Mr. Amitabh Sinha; Company Secretary and Legal Adviser, CFAO NIGERIA, Mrs. Omoniyi Ayeni; Chairman Board of Directors, CFAO NIPEN, Mr. Steve Faderin; and Managing Director, CFAO NIPEN, Mr. Regis Tromeur at the 42nd Annual General Meeting of the Company held in Lagos recently.

        Share this on WhatsApp

 
The Nigerian Ball-Point Pen Industries Plc. (NIPEN), a manufacturing subsidiary of CFAO Nigeria Plc. has announced a revenue income of N2 billion for its business operations in 2016.

This was disclosed by the Chairman of the company’s Board of Directors, Mr. Stephen Faderin, at the Company’s 42nd Annual General Meeting (AGM) held in Lagos, recently.

According to Mr. Faderin, the company generated N6.9 billion, which is N2 billion more than N4.9 billion achieved in the same period of the previous year. Whilst reviewing the company’s operational activities for the period ended December 31, 2016 to the teeming shareholders of the company, Mr. Faderin said the year was indeed challenging.

He added that the major focus of the management during the period was to keep the company’s production level steady and market share intact. NIPEN manufactures and distributes BiC ball point pens, Cristal pens, premium pens, razors and plastic crates.

He said the performance of the company was impacted by the nation’s economic head winds which he said was “characterized by low crude oil prices, tight capital controls and high foreign exchange volatility.”

According to Mr. Faderin, the financial performance was modest although the Net Operating Income reduced due to high cost of administration and general expenses based on foreign exchange translations.

He added also that “with respect to the major concern of keeping facilities, staff and market share intact through this period, we were successful overall.”

He commended BiC, the company’s offshore partners for their immense support during these trying times which he said ensured minimal attrition to the company’s business. He also appealed to the government to create more opportunities for growing the manufacturing sector of the economy.



caption: LEFT TO RIGHT: Director, CFAO NIPEN, Pastor Sola Ajidagba; Finance Director, CFAO NIPEN, Mr. Amitabh Sinha; Company Secretary and Legal Adviser, CFAO NIGERIA, Mrs. Omoniyi Ayeni; Chairman Board of Directors, CFAO NIPEN, Mr. Steve Faderin; and Managing Director, CFAO NIPEN, Mr. Regis Tromeur at the 42nd Annual General Meeting of the Company held in Lagos recently.






Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment