Share this on WhatsApp

As Violent Protests disrupt APC Governorship Primary




Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State, on Sunday, called on the international community and stakeholders in the Nigerian project to be at alert and set their eyes on the July 14 Governorship election on the state. The governor in a press briefing said that the violent obstruction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary election on Saturday by thugs loyal to one of the aspirants was a shame top democracy and a sign that the APC has lost the election.
Fayose decried that the ugly incidence threatens democracy, noting that none of those involved in the violent obstruction has been arrested, expressing that he is sure they will not be arrested.
“It is a clear indication that APC will fail in the July 14 governorship election because it has become a house divided against itself. If they could be this violent during their own primary election, won’t they do worse things during the election proper,” Fayose declared. He maintained that APC is plotting to sponsor thugs to disrupt the PDP primary election which is scheduled for May 8, 2018. “They want to give the impression that violence is not restricted to APC alone, that it is also a political culture in other parties,” the governor said.
“The whole world can now see the so-called progressives. Ordinary primary election, the APC could not hold here in Ekiti. These people are hypocrites and enemies of democracy, masquerading as progressives,” he said.
Fayose admonished that the Police should not shy away from their responsibilities. He remarked that the state has been peaceful over the years under his leadership until the APC ravaging of the state.
Fayose maintained that “Ekiti people must be allowed to choose their next governor under free and fair election;” warning,”INEC must be mindful of being used to manipulate the July 14 election in favour of APC. More so, that they have by their conduct today, failed themselves.”
The APC governorship primary in Ekiti was disrupted on Saturday by some protesters at the Oluyemi Kayode Stadium, Ado-Ekiti.
In a telecast of the incident monitored from Lagos, supporters of unidentified aspirant invaded Oluyemo Kayode Stadium in Ado Ekiti, the venue of the exercise, threw away the ballot boxes from the table, scattered the ballot papers on the floor in total disregard of the presence of the Police. The police appeared helpless as they acted with impunity, pushing the security operatives out of their ways to accomplish their mission.
The violent disruptions compelled the electoral umpires to suspend the party primary indefinitely.
A total of 33 aspirants are contesting the APC ticket.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment