Share this on WhatsApp



Kaduna Governor Nasir el-Rufai did not mince words on Friday when he rained curses on Kaduna’s three senators for blocking his government loan request from the World Bank.
“Today, there are no haters of the masses of Kaduna State like Shehu Sani, Suleiman Hunkuyi and Danjuma Laah, ” he said.
“God will curse them. God will reward their wickedness against the masses. May God never bless them.”
His outburst came weeks after Senators Sheu Sani (Kaduna Central), Sulieman Hukunyi (Kaduna North), and Danjuma Leah (Kaduna South)blocked the $350m loan request.
The federal lawmakers said the loan would render the state uncompetitive economically.
But el-Rufai, speaking at the inauguration of the All Progressives Congress’ campaign for the local government election in the state at the Kaduna Township Stadium, described the lawmakers as “useless” and “ignorant” enemies of democracy.
Speaking Hausa, the governor told the thousands of people their senators conspired to stop his government from obtaining the loan to build infrastructure and develop the state.
“What is their reason for rejecting the loan? It is because they are haters of the masses in Kaduna State,” he said.
“If a road project is initiated in your town, they don’t want it to be completed. If we start renovating a hospital, they don’t want it to be completed. If five schools are renovated and 10 are remaining, they will not want the remaining 10 to be renovated.”
The governor however spared the House of Reps members from the state his holy anger.
“God bless them. May God return them to their seats in 2019,” he said.
Same for members of our state (House of) Assembly who gave him their cooperation before the World Bank eventually approved the loan.
For Sani, Hunkuyi, and Leah, he described them as cursed.
“If they come to Kaduna, shave their heads and beard. They have shown that they are bastards, they have no origin, therefore, it is important to tell them that they did not originate from this state.”
“If the time for election comes, answer them with votes, show them that you don’t like them… Let them go back to where they come from. Let them go to the people they are working for to vote for them.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment