Share this on WhatsApp
 
The crisis rocking the Ekiti state chapter of the All Progressives Congress deepened on Tuesday when some of the party’s governorship aspirants snubbed the peace meeting hosted by the party’s national leader, Asiwaju Tinubu and some leaders.

National Daily gathered that when the meeting which was held at the Lago state government, Asokoro in Abuja, reconvened around 7:30pm, two of the aspirants, Kayode Fayemi and Ayo Arise, a former senator did attend the rest of the meeting, a clear indication that they do not agree with the discussion.

Fayemi, Minister of Mines and Steel, who walked out of the room ahead of other aspirants and party leaders, accused the contestants of conspiring to thwart the exercise, which he claimed was in his favour.

Chief Bisi Akande, pioneer chairman of the party, who spoke with journalists said the outcome of the meeting would be presented to the national working committee (NWC) of the party.

Asked if there were discussion on a consensus candidate, he said it is an option since the party’s constitution is not against it.
“Primary election is already written in our constitution but all we want is the happiness the generality of the leadership, the contestants and our party in general,” Akande said.
 
“We took a decision on what will be the best advantage to our party and the country. Consensus is already written in our constitution and it is an option.”

When asked if the aspirants agreed on a consensus candidate, Akande said they were asked to think about it and report back to the leaders.

Asked to comment on the cancellation of Saturday’s primary, Akande said he was not part of the process but said he would be part of avoid the repeat of the incident.

Some of the party leaders in attendance were Bisi Akande, pioneer chairman of the party; Segun Osoba, former Ogun state governor; Niyi Adebayo, former Ekiti state governor; and Pius Akinyelure; zonal vice chairman of the APC in the south-west.
The APC leadership has fixed July 11 for a fresh primary.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment