Share this on WhatsApp
 
President Muhammadu Buhari who has hardly made negative comments about former President Olusegun Obasanjo took a swipe at the elder statesman, saying former head of state, Sani Abacha performed better.

While playing host to the Buhari Support Organisation (BSO) at the presidential villa, President Buhari, who was appointed by Abacha as chairman of the Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF), dismissed opinions people might have against the late dictator and praised him for ensuring the construction of roads in Nigeria.

“No matter what opinion you have about Abacha, I agreed to work with him and the PTF road we did from here to Port Harcourt, to Onitsha, to Benin and so on,” he said, adding that “on top of other things in the institution, education, medical care and so on.”

He said Obasanjo during his 8-year rule failed to deliver on power despite spending about $16bn in the sector.

“You know the rail was killed and one of the former Heads of State between that time was bragging that he spent more than $15 billion, not Naira on power. Where is the power? Where is the power? And now we have to pay the debts and this year and last year’s budget I took to the National Assembly was the highest in capital projects, more than N1.3 trillion Naira.”

He said previous administrations from 1999 left huge debt for him.

“Between 1999 and 2014, Nigeria was getting 2.1 million barrels per day and average cost of $100 per barrel. It went up to $143. So Nigeria was earning 2.1 million multiply by 100, multiply by 16 years, seven days a week.

“When we came, it collapsed to $37 – $38 and it was oscillating between $40 and $54 sometimes. I went to the Governor of Central Bank, thank goodness I did not sack him, he is still there. I went with my cap in my hand. He said there was no savings, only debt.”

While asking for God’s help, Buhari said he would bring the country back to its senses.

“We will try as much as we can to work and bring this country to her senses. God has given Nigeria everything; we are rich in human and material resources, let us keep praying to God that He should put people of conscience in charge at all levels.”




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment