Share this on WhatsApp
 
By Lanre Adesanya

To ensure a secured future for the Nigerian child,a Lagos lawmaker, Hon. Dipo Olorunrinu has urge the  Federal Government to focus more on massive investments in education and healthcare.

Olorunrinu, the only PDP lawmaker in the Lagos State House of Assembly made the appeal during the third edition of his Children Day’s party organised for school children in FESTAC area.

The lawmaker, representing Amuwo Odofin I at the Assembly highlighted broad base free education to secure the children future.

According to him, identifying with the children gives him satisfaction having been an orphan at a quite early stage, securing the future of children should be the priority of any government.

“These are our hope of tomorrow, we must give them priority in all our policy. Child rights acts must be passed by all state houses of Assembly to protect these children.

“Our government must shift focus of the children to give hope to our nation, neglects of these children in our programmes and policies is like shooting ourselves at the foot.

“It is very good and necessary we pass the Child Right Law, to protect the rights of a Nigerian child.

The lawmakers, who offers computer training scholarship for five children, said that education should be holistic in the 21st century.

He urged the children to guard against negative peer pressures, maintain your integrity,be focused and diligent.

Chief Jelili Alebiosu, the Chairman, PDP in the council, who commended Olorunrinu for the gesture, said everybody was speaking good about the lawmaker for his large heart.

Mrs Yewande Oloruninu, wife of the lawmaker, urged the well meaning Nigerians and political class not to be selfish but give back to their society, especially to the children.

Mrs Olorunrinu also urged parents to struggle hard to take care of their children and show them love.

A parent Joshua Olayande notes that the best way to be in the reckoning of the electorates for any politician,is to take care of their children.

By so doing you have started on a good course,Hon.Dipo Olorunrinu is not only doing this, he is also taking good care of the aged,he has been with the constituent since inception and till now.

Miss Precious Oikeh, a 13 year old SSS I student, said that she was happy to be a partaker of the party for the first time saying “it is awesome and impressive”.

Master Abdullahi Muhammed, a 13 years old boy of in JSS 3 said that the lawmaker had done his best to mahke children happy, also urge him to continue.

Master Chibuikem Njoku , a 12 year boy in JSS I class said: “This is good and admirable for children. The lawmaker has done well let him continue  and make the subsequent edition better.We are fully behind him,” Njoku said.

Children were observed enjoying play things afforded like bouncing castles, popular music,dancing competitions, among others, as vouchers to shop at Shoprite were given to those who displayed talent as well as stationery among other gift items.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment