Share this on WhatsApp



The State Congress of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Saturday, May 29, 2019, exposed the deep crack in the party across the country. Competing factions within the party held parallel congress in 21 of the 22 APC controlled states beside others. The ugly incident compelled the National Publicity Secretary, Bolaji Abdulahi to declare in Kwara Sate that any congress beside those conducted by members of the congress committees is an exercise in futility. Bolaji Abdulahi had attended the congress in Kwara Sate led by the Minster of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, while the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki and Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed attended the parallel congress in Kwara.
Accordingly, Alhaji Kawu Baraje, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara, and leader of the nPDP bloc, decried that parallel congresses of the party in  21 of its 22 controlled states is a bad omen that all is not well with the party.
Alhaji Kawu Baraje in Ilorin, Kwara State, on Sunday, denied the seven days ultimatum issued the President Muhammadu Buhari and APC leadership to address issues of marginalization in the party.  He observed that even if they did not respond, response to such will not be immediate.
Baraje remarked that parallel congresses will give rise to parallel executives in the leadership of the party; this he admitted will deepen the conflicts in the party.
“When I was the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, we never had 21 states with parallel congress and parallel executives.
“For a party in government that controls at least 22 states to have parallel congresses in 21 states is a bad occurrence.
“It is a dangerous trend for APC, the earlier the party put its house in order, the better for it. It is bad for APC,” Baraje stated.
He said his group, the nPDP, will meet with the leadership of APC on Monday, May 21 to resolve the issues they raised in their letter to President Muhammadu Buhari.
“All that we complained of in PDP are now happening in APC, people are disenchanted with the party,”
“Leadership of APC failed to follow the rules of the party, they lack respect for due process, rule of law, disdain for peace and order and flagrant disobedience for the highest authority.” Baraje declared.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment