Share this on WhatsApp



The All Progressives Congress (APC), on Monday, vowed that aspirants whose supporters disrupted Saturday’s governorship primary election in Ekiti State would be disqualified from participating in the exercise.
APC National Publicity Secretary, Malam Bolaji Abdullahi, in Abuja, after the presentation of the report by Chairman of the Ekiti Governorship Primary Election Committee, Governor Tanko Al-Makura of Nasarawa State, said that the report contained photographs of individuals that disrupted the exercise, and that the leadership would review the report immediately.
Abdullahi declared: “Governor Tanko Al-Makura gave us a full report orally and submitted a written report of what transpired in Ekiti.
“They also made specific recommendations which gave the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) a couple of options on how to proceed.
“But, what I can assure you is that the individuals that took part in disrupting the exercise in Ekiti have been fully identified and we know the people they represent at the event.
“If we find them to be culpable accordingly, the principal they represent will be disqualified from the exercise and the individuals that participated in disrupting the exercise will be fully prosecuted.”
Gov. Tanko Al-Makura, Chairman of the Ekiti Governorship Primary Election Committee, presented the report of the primary to the leaders at the party’s National Secretariat, Abuja on Monday.
The Saturday APC governorship primary election was disrupted by supporters of one of the aspirants at a stage the election has gone far. Contrary to claims that hoodlums invaded the election venue, two men well-dressed went on rampage, threw the ballot box off the table and scattered the ballot papers on the ground. They defied the authorities of the Police present at the election venue; pushed the Police out of their way with impunity to accomplish their mission.
The watched helplessly until the damage had been done before they rushed the two men and halted their actions.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment