Share this on WhatsApp

Technology is just a tool. In terms of getting the kids working together and motivating them, the teacher is most important.” – Bill Gates



It is harder than ever to get our students future ready, teaching is tough. Previously in the past, educators got children prepared for careers that lasted their whole lives, it didn’t matter if they decided to be plumbers or doctors
It isn’t a  stretch to say that with pervasiveness of technology in our lives there are no guidelines for what jobs of the future will be in 10 or 20 years from now.
This brings us to the crux of the matter, teaching must evolve to keep pace with the rapid changes in the global economy. It’s This is critical because teachers are the bedrock of the quality of all schools.
Hopefully we will advance to where we could use Star trek tech and send the hologram of great teachers to where they are desperately needed. Right now we need to make it essential that all schools have top-notch teachers in every classroom who enable the future readiness of today’s learners.
It is time to ditch the all familiar rote learning for tests and exams, assimilating facts and information which is readily procured from the internet. Let’s build up their  skills in problem-solving, collaboration, and creativity so they are more than able to take on the challenges of the future, work well with teams,, and be flexible  and adaptable to the dynamics of the global economy.
It means we have to pay more attention to the kinds of teachers our children have; ones who work relentlessly  to improve their teaching skills.  Unfortunately we don’t have a lot of teachers like these in our schools but we can equip our teachers to be this way.
A lot of people think that  teaching is a calling, but I know that with the right training and support; almost everyone can become a great teacher. This must be bound with the belief in the potential of all of our students to learn. It’s urgent  and vital work because regardless of what the future of work looks like; one thing is inevitable;  Children require assistance and encouragement to acquire the academic and character skills they need to survive and lead prosperous lives.
I love interacting with our children to question them about their ideas on the future of work and their teachers.  I also love to talk to educators because they are a common denominator all over the world. Everyone has been taught by a teacher; whether it was informal or formal is another matter altogether.
We will always need human interactions to guide all our children to grow to their full potential.
Adetola Salau; Educator / Speaker / Author/ Social Entrepreneur / Innovator
She is an Advocate of STEM Education and is Passionate about Education reform. She is an innovative thinker and strives for our society & continent as a whole to reclaim it’s greatness. She runs an educational foundation with the mission to transform education.
E-mail-:Carismalife4U@gmail.com
facebook-: Carisma4u
twitter-: @Carisma4u
Website-: www.carisma4u.com
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment