Share this on WhatsApp

Receives N327m from 13% Oil Derivation




The Lagos State Government on Monday revealed that it has so far achieved an average monthly Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of N34 billion in 2018 compared to monthly averages of the last three years.
Commissioner for Finance, Mr. Akinyemi Ashade, at the ongoing annual Ministerial Press Briefing to mark the third anniversary of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode administration held at Bagauda Kaltho Press Centre in Alausa, attributed the gradual improvement to the impact of the ongoing reforms and growth in the State’s economy.
 “Notably, we are recording gradual improvement in our average monthly IGR in 2018 compared to the levels achieved in previous years due to the impact of ongoing reforms and growth in the State’s economy. Based on our first quarter results, Lagos State has so far achieved an average monthly IGR of N34 billion in 2018 compared to monthly averages of N22 billion, N24 billion and N30 billion in 2015, 2016 and 2017 respectively” he said.
The Commissioner expressed optimism that the IGR would continue to rise even further as the State continues to implement the various reforms, driven by wider technology adoption and innovation, adding that the target to grow the State’s IGR to N50bn by next year was well on course.
 “The target we set for ourselves is N50billion but we all know the kind of push backs we have experienced including people going to court and all that. Our commitment is not for now, its for the future of Lagos. We know it’s a marathon, we would win some and we would lose some, but we are very committed towards ensuring that we meet the target, but if we don’t meet it this year, definitely there would be another year, but we believe we would succeed in that target we set for ourselves,” Ashade said.
The Commissioner further acknowledged that since Lagos joined the league of oil producing State, the Government had received a total of N327 million revenue, comprising N197 million and N130 million received in 2017 and first quarter of 2018 respectively.
 “Furthermore, we are in ongoing discussions with the Federal Government towards obtaining a refund for expenditure totaling N51 billion that was incurred by the State Government on behalf of the Federal Government for infrastructure projects developments in the State. We are optimistic of successful discussions that will result in the approval and payment of the amount owed to the State Government by the Federal Government,” he said.
Ashade said the Government’s debt stock, comprising 48 per cent local debt and 52 per cent foreign debt currently stood at N874.38 billion at the end of 2017 while the debt service charge to total revenue ratio which stood at 17.61 per cent was still within the World Bank threshold of 30 per cent.
The Commissioner said the State Government has continued to maintain a positive credit rating, however, adding that a downgrade of Nigeria’s sovereign rating would lead to a corresponding action on Lagos’ international drawing rights.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment