Share this on WhatsApp


















By Lanre Adesanya

A Lagos Lawmaker Hon. Rasheed Makinde, has urged political office holders to reflect on the essence of democracy, so as to effect good governance.




Hon. Makinde a Lagos State House of Assembly member representing Ifako Ijaiye II constituency gave the counsel at a Ramadan lecture,Special Quranic recitation and Iftar(feeding the faithful) held at his constituency office.

“This is the third in the series since my inception in office and God has been faithful in making it a fulfilling one for us.

“The essence of this is to gather our constituents together and seek the face of Almighty God,inThis democracy also marks the day of liberation from the military juntas and it is a special day that everybody should reflect on what we have been doing, especially those of us in the corridor of power and every individual that how far have we gone from 1999 till date.

We need reflect and do more to effect good governance,those who prefers June12 above May 29 as our democracy day are on line, because if there is no June 12 there won’t be May 29,as the incident of June12 gave birth to May 29,so the two days are very important in our nascent democracy.

The President League of imam Ojokoro Area, Sheik (Alhaji) Mohammadu-Awal Ambali while speaking at the charged Ramadan lecture, said that the inability of all to accept that God rules in the affairs accounts for all the ills pervading the society.

The cleric urge all faithful to allow God in every facets of their lives so as to enjoy His benevolence.

According to him, there is no strange occurrence in the polity given the fact that the Quran has enlightened us earlier about it that times and tides may differ but our prayers should always be for God’s protection and provision in such moments.

“We shall continually pray to God but it is certain that things are not meant to be rosy all the time,so we must accept our fate as it comes.

“Democracy has a lot of benefits as it allows us as clerics and other constituents unfettered access to the powers that be,to be able to tell them about the need for the fear of God in all they do.

“This has in no small measure brought about peace and tranquility in our society as well as enhance good governance,” Sheik Ambali said.



















Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment