Share this on WhatsApp



The Lagos State Government have disclosed that the first phase of its embedded power project will kick off in July, 2018 with 1,000 megawatts.
Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources, Olawale Oluwo who spoke at a ministerial press conference in Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos, Southwest Nigeria, said the plan was to generate 3,000 megawatts within the next five years.
According to him, the first phase of the embedded power project would see to the generation of 1,000 megawatts of electricity in 13 locations yet to be disclosed.
He said the 13 locations would be made known later as the State Executive Council would have have to approve it first before the announcement.
Oluwo stated that the embedded power project would lead to the generation of up to 3,000 megawatts electricity for Lagos State within 3-5 years; cost reflective tariff pricing of electricity to attract patient private capital; distribution using 132kV, 33kV and 11kV lines so the power can stay in Lagos; implementing Waste-to-Energy technology, to clean upDump Sites in Lagos; commencing journey to deregulate Nigeria’s power sector from Lagos State and ultimately achieving energy security for Lagos State.
According to him, the Lagos embedded power programme was aimed at correcting the structural challenges in the Lagos State Power Sector and gradually position the state for 24 hours power supply.
He said government was implementing reforms in five areas,power, downstream petroleum, gas, solid mineral and regulatory, adding that one of the fall outs of the reforms would lead to the ban on firewood, kerosene and charcoal, when liquefied petroleum gas is widespread.
Oluwo disclosed that the overall objective of the gas reform was to open Lagos gas market to local and international players and make Niger delta less critical to the future of Lagos economy.
He said to promote use of cooking gas, the government was working with the Ministry of Physical Planning to designate 200 locations in Lagos State where potential gas operators could set up storage and dispensing stations without endangering the neighbourhoods.
Oluwo added that the state also planned to implement gas to home project in Ikoyi, Ikeja GRA and Victoria Island. To promote safety environment, he said the Ministry is planning a legislation that will make it compulsory for houses to have fire extinguishers.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment