Share this on WhatsApp

Tension in APC as party turns against Okorocha, lawmakers

After passing a vote of no confidence on Gov. Rochas Okorocha for personalising the party, the state chapter of the APC has petitioned the headquarters to avert the looming crisis before 2019.

The governor draws the anger of the party for has firmly positioning his son-in-law to succeed him, and getting the APC lawmakers to rubber-stamp it.

A stakeholder forum comprising Dep.Gov. Eze Madumere, Senator representing Imo North, Ben Uwajumogu, the National Organising Secretary of the party, Sen. Osita Izunaso,  Sen. Ifeanyi Ararume and over 50 others has petitoned the party’s National Working Committee over this.

They are also ready to recall the lawmakers they consider have sold out by meddling in endorsement of candidates.

Leader of the APC stakeholders in the state, Okey Ikoro, said the party leaders, on April 28, unanimously passed a vote of no confidence on Okorocha.

“We also dissociate ourselves and the Imo State chapter of APC from the ignoble policies and programmes of the Owelle Rochas Okorocha-led administration which are viewed as anti-people, unpopular and retrogressive.”

According to him, the leaders agreed to wrestle back the party from one man and give it back to the people, and to initiate recall processes of some  members of Imo State House of Assembly who endorsed  Uche Nwosu, son-inlaw and CoS to Okorocha,  for the forthcoming election in the state.

The stakeholders equally condemned what they described as “the despicable usurpation of the powers of the party offices and officers by Okorocha to himself.

Other sins counted against Okorocha include destruction of private properties and markets without adequate notices or providing alternatives; forceful acquisition of lands from the natives; total refusal to pay gratuities; fraudulent handling of payment of pension; non promotion of civil servants since 2011; imposition of N3,000 levy on men among other issues.

Responding, the national chairman of the party,  John Odigie-Oyegun, said the party leadership would look at the petition with a view to resolving the issues.

“It is a painful thing to see that we are divided but I am happy that in your speech, you have opened doors of unity,” he said.

Oyegun said he is not unaware of the grievances of the party members, and that i is difficult to seek unity without justice.

“So there must be justice,” he said.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment