Share this on WhatsApp



By Boluwatife Ezekiel Olaleye
Chief Mbazulike Amaechi, First Republic Minister of Aviation has revealed that the Jihadists are behind killings in some parts of the country.
Amaechi said it was an ongoing plot by Jihadists to kill Christians and completely Islamise Nigeria, using armed Fulani herdsmen.
According to him, to achieve their aim, the Jihadists masquerading as herdsmen were secretly establishing colonies in the Southern part of the country, building mosques, gradually growing their population in those areas, after which they would forcefully take it over.
He added that they bomb mosques to give the impression that Muslims were also being killed.
Amaechi said, “There is a worse situation in the country at the moment, there is a new agenda that they are pursuing, it is the agenda of total islamization of Nigeria and that is why a band of people are being armed, whom they named the Fulani herdsmen.
“These people are not herdsmen; they are the people that are properly trained to carry out the charge of Othman Dan Fodio to establish their Caliphate and dip the Quran in the sea; that is the agenda they are pursuing.
“At the present, they are killing Christians and as part of their propaganda, when people complain that Christians are being killed, the killers would go to one out of the way mosque and throw a bomb there, then they will claim that the killers have also bombed a mosque.
“We know what is happening. It is left for the people of this generation to either redeem themselves from the firm clutches of this new imperial power or good luck to them”.
On what can be done to rescue the country from the so-called Jihadists, he said “The objective of the so-called Fulani herdsmen as I pointed out is islamization of the country; they want to establish colonies among the people of Southern Nigeria particularly the South West, South South, South East and then the Middle Belt which are predominantly Christian areas”.
“That is the plan; they have seen how it was done in Turkey and some other countries around the world. So they changed the plan of Othman Dan Fodio of 1804 to a new plan and that is what is going on now. Look at what they are doing in Benue and Taraba states” .
“It is because of the large numbers of Christians in those places. They want to force them to convert to Islam. Are people so blind that they cannot see these things?” he asked.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment