Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiolu, says he preferred President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to that of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, describing the former president as somebody who deceives to get what he wants.
Recall that in January, Olusegun Obasanjo in a blistering and excoriating 13-page statement, called on President Muhammadu Buhari not to seek re-election in 2019.
Obasanjo, a two-term president on the platform of People Democratic Party (PDP), said he felt disappointed by Buhari, whom he supported during the 2015 election over then incumbent and candidate of his former party, Goodluck Jonathan.
Likening the state of the nation to lice-infested clothes, he said the country’s fingernails is stained with blood as it tries to kill the lice by pressing them in-between two fingernails.
According to him, in other to make sure that our fingernails remains blood-free we must do what it takes rid our clothes of lice. He has since formed a Coalition of Nigeria Movement, as an alternative party.
But while speaking on Monday at the opening ceremony of the 17th Lagos Housing Fair, Akiolu said former President Goodluck Jonathan would also have been a better leader if he was not a victim of circumstances, who allowed some people to use him.
“I prefer Buhari to Obasanjo. Obasanjo keeps deceiving people for what he is after. But if Buhari is given another chance and God gives him good health and he chooses the right people to work with, Nigeria will be a better place.”
“In 2011, Buhari sent Tony Momoh to me that he was coming to meet the leaders of Lagos in my palace by 1pm, he came by 3pm and said he was delayed by bad roads and traffic. I told him he caused it because he cancelled the metro line of Lagos State in 1984. I told him I would not tell Lagos people to vote for him.
“But in 2015 when he came, it was on a Friday, he came with my son, Bola Tinubu, and I noticed that for 20 minutes it rained. It occurred to me that God is going to favour this man.
He said a second chance would enable Buhari to improve the country’s economy. “Buhari has to do more, I agree, but we all have to assist by giving him another four years and see where he will take Nigeria to. I am supporting what is good for Nigeria,” Oba Akiolu said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment