Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Yoruba Ronu Leadership Forum says ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo and his fellow travelers are trying to deceive Nigerians.
The forum was reacting to a statement credited to Obasanjo that the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) is taking Nigerians for fools.
In a statement on Friday, Akin Malaolu, general secretary of the forum, said Nigerians now know what is good for them and for their children’s future.
“It was not without doubt that the Yoruba Ronu leadership forum warned Nigerians against trusting the candidate Jonathan in 2010 due to his several weaknesses and obtuseness in power.
“Leaders across the two divides, and including Obasanjo, Ohaneze and Afenifere, all saw Jonathan’s incapacitation in administration but they chose self-regarding objectives rather than other regarding objectives in their very many decisions.”
“They planted the seed of division long before now and they are still repeating same perplexing errors in their ignorance,” it read.
“They are not going to allow some false leaders and leaders that could commit abomination with ease take away their hopes in the present government of President Muhammadu Buhari.
“We must warn against war, because wars have never solved the needs for war anywhere in the world and in wars, procreation is delayed, women and their children would suffer.
“Nigerians must pray fervently against these ignoble men and their desire to enslave us all, we must pray for the extermination of what they all stands for.
“The progressives and APC must prepare themselves in this war of attrition between thesis and antithesis, a political war that will be won by them due to fairness, justice and happiness, which they have promoted in this present administration of President Buhari.
“Those who may want to go can go in peace, but the generality of Nigerians and the Yoruba race are with Buhari and the APC. We awesomely believe in the intervention and righteousness of the present Government in administration.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment