Share this on WhatsApp



The Lagos State Command, on Monday, paraded  a suspect, Abiogun Adewale, who allegedly buys car, configures a computer program that would send fake payment alert to the car dealer, and take away the car under false pretenses.
The suspect was arrested by a combined team of FSAR and the Local Police, led by DSP Aduroja Slíbila Olurotimi.
Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohinmi Edgal, narrated that Adewale, born on 12 January 1990, played host to the leader of the syndicate,  Michael Thompson Williams, who bought a Porsche car at the price of N28 million. He requested for the seller’s bank account details to which he sent a fake credit alert to the sum of N28 million to his phone using computer software, HTTP tunnel.com.
The suspect took the car away unknown to the seller that he had been scammed. Thereafter, after discovery the credit alert was fake, on the complaint of the fraud victim, the Police commenced manhunt on the fleeing suspect. The Command availed detectives of the FSARS all necessary intelligence asset which led to the arrest of the suspect in Lekki, Lagos.
“This suspect was interrogated and he confessed to committing the crime. He also led detectives to Asaba, Delta State, where the stolen Porsche car was recovered. He also led detectives to Owerri, Imo State, where two Camry Saloon Cars he stole in a similar fashion were recovered. The modus operandi of the suspect who has a good mastery of cyber environment is that he creates a credit card through cyber ghost 12.  When the credit card matures, it is then funded through a hacked Swiss account. Any transaction anybody is doing through Swiss account the suspect manipulates such and wire the fund to his contrived credit card. This is possible with the aid of cyber ghost 12 HTTP/tunnel.azinytv4/vpn (virtual private network). He further stated that through the credit card, one can buy softwares he needs to work and protect his job so that he cannot be traced. Such softwares are known as vpn and word cyber protector e.g Dare Devil. It also enables you to do deductions and transactions per dollar from every individual domiciliary account,” the CP narrated.
“Shutting of CCTV camera on Dare Devil and break the two hundred and fifty-six (256) codes on word. CCTV.China.com.northkorea.code untouchable.tracker.com. This enables him to shut down any working system of his interest on yt.com – an internet sophistication e.g. youtube/facebook to make them unworkable for 67 minutes. Although, he is not a computer scientist, he claimed to be a professional hacker.
Suspect would be charged to court soon,” Edgal stated.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment