Share this on WhatsApp



Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), receiving the new executive members of the party who paid him a courtesy visit at his Bourdilion, Ikoyi residence after the state congress of the party on Saturday, directed them to promote unity and inclusiveness in the state APC.
The APC leader mandated the executive to rededicate themselves to the party and work to take APC to the new level. He maintained that winning all political contests became a hallmark of the party in Lagos.
Tinubu commended the outgoing executive members led by Chief Henry Ajomale for their unparalleled stewardship that saw the party grow stronger, broader and more relevant. He commended them for steady way they led the party, maintaining party discipline and cohesion through the years.
Tinubu remarked: “The outgoing executives led by Chief Ajomale did a wonderful job. He led the party with a unity of purpose underpinned by the spirit of inclusiveness and purpose. Under them we never lost any election. We will not lose any election but this depends on how you handle your new responsibilities.”
The leader observed that the state congress was conducted in line with the guiding laws of the party. “The people who own the party have spoken and chosen their leaders. The success of the congress held confirms the tradition of robust democracy and consensus-building that has brought progressive development to our state,” he said.
Tinubu noted that the new state chairman of the party, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, was no stranger to him and no stranger to his responsibility, remarking that as Commissioner under his administration, he performed well. He was confident Balogun has the ability to lead the party and to deliver the goods.
Balogun was Commissioner for Home Affairs and Culture during Tinubu’s time as governor.
The new chairman thanked the APC national leader and pledged to work hard to take the party to the next level.
He commended the Senator Uche Ekwunife, who led the state Congress Organising Committee, and her team for conducting a free, fair and transparent exercise and for demonstrating commitment to the progress and success of the party.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment