Share this on WhatsApp



 
Zinox Technologies Ltd., Sub-Saharan Africa’s foremost tech giant, has finalized arrangements to expand its hardware assembly and production capacity with the acquisition of a 129,166.925 square feet warehouse.
The company is also considering the deployment of Robotics in handling the certification processes in the new assembly plant which will be located in Ogba-Ikeja, Lagos.Through the new facility, Zinox will assemble the products and devices of other multinational Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) which it has recently signed agreements with in a bid to domesticate technology and generate employment opportunities for many unemployed but skilled Nigerians.
The move, which will significantly boost Zinox’s assembling capacity, is also in line with the company’s Future Visions mandate which is targeted at anticipating the future of technology and creating products for the savvy consumers in areas such as Internet of Things (IOTs), Robotics, Artificial Intelligence etc.
A Nigerian-based OEM that has endured the peculiar pains and challenges that have stifled many businesses in the nation’s technology sector, Zinox has enjoyed a measure of confidence and patronage from several blue-chip companies and multinationals such as Shell, Chevron, Total among others, for whom it has supplied high-end personal computers (PCs), laptops, workstations, desktop units, monitors and other accessories.
Gideon Ayogu, Head of Corporate Communications at Zinox disclosed that the new assembly plant will help the company expand its capacity to meet the changing demands of a dynamic market and employ more Nigerians.“As Nigeria’s IT identity, we have not lost focus of the fact that no country can claim to be independent until it achieves technology independence.
We have gained trust with global tech giants such as Microsoft Corp, Intel Inc. and many others. All we need is the support of the government and people of Nigeria.“The acquisition of the new facility and expansion of Zinox’s assembly/production line is a critical step in the right direction as it will go a long way to boost our internal capacity and effortless delivery of large-scale rollout projects, all of which require meeting very tight deadlines.
We have worked with several big institutions in the recent past such as Shell, Chevron, NCC, INEC etc. for whom we have implemented the rollout of major computer hardware and accessories.
Expanding our assembling capacity will further equip us with the agility to scale and take on more of such deployments, both in the private and public sector and not outsource jobs to companies in other countries thereby empowering their citizens when many tech-savvy Nigerians graduates are unemployed and crying out for opportunities to show their competence.
“In addition to plans to deploy Robotics, the new assembly plant will function with the latest technology in line with our Future Visions mandate which involves anticipating and proactively deploying latest technology to meet the demands of the future consumer,” he said.
Zinox is expected to open up the new assembly plant by Q3 2018, expectedly reducing the pressure on the existing production/assembly plant at the company’s headquarters.
With its headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria and branches all over the country in addition to research hubs in Africa, Asia, Europe and the Middle East; the Zinox Group boasts a 360-degree spectrum orientation as an integrated ICT solutions group with advanced competencies in manufacturing, distribution, e-commerce and after-sales support, among others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment