President Muhammadu Buhari, at the commissioning of the N24 billion Headquarters of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in Abuja on Tuesday, commended the federal government on the fight against corruption in the country since 2015 when the All Progressives Congress (APC) took over the government at the center.
 The President remarked that the 12-storey N24 billion edifice is another milestone in government’s determined and collective fight against corruption, making reference to his commitment to fight against corruption, adding that progress has been made to curtail corruption in the country.
“Throughout my journey in national service and since 2015, I have made a very conscious decision to pursue a vigorous fight against corruption in public life.
“Since 2015, we have made significant progress in the fight against corruption. Everyone now knows that corrupt officials will be held to account, no matter how long it takes.
“We have recovered and are still recovering trillions of naira that were stolen in the past few years by people without conscience.
“We are pursuing recoveries everywhere and are making sure that anyone who has been found culpable is made to answer for his or her crime under the law.
 “It is my hope and expectation that the judiciary, which is a critical stakeholder and partner in the war against corruption, would continue to collaborate with the Executive to bring corrupt people to book.”
Buhari demanded the Legislature which provides the legal framework for the anti-corruption war to add more verve to the determination of government to rid the country of the brazen corruption witnessed in recent years, through reviewing archaic provisions in our laws and proactive passage of new legislation.
President Buhari, however, admitted possibilities of resistance to anti-corruption war.
According to Buhari, “What I see here is not only a structure of concrete and metal, I see in this edifice, the resolve of Nigerians to fight corruption. But structures are not the whole story. We must CHANGE our ways of handling public trust. Corruption not only kills governments but destroys societies. It is the major reason why we are struggling with basic developmental issues that other comparable nations have long overcome.
“War of corruption is not an easy one to fight, because it affects so many different branches of our lives, so much that some people do not even consider breaking trust is anymore a crime. It has become the norm. That is why we must fight this attitude and encourage Nigerians to CHANGE their attitudes and perspectives.”
Buhari reiterated that,   “The goal of this Administration is to ensure the protection of public trust, and the anti-corruption war is at its centre. We never intended, and we are not engaged in witch-hunts, but we are determined within the laws to call people to account.”
He solicited the cooperation   of Nigerians to support regulatory agencies like Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, because fighting corruption is everyone’s concern. He also called on the Judiciary and the National Assembly to join hands in the national effort.
The president also observed that several countries are signifying interest to help government tighten the laws and enter into agreements with Nigeria to repatriate not only stolen funds but to make the culprits face due process of law.
“We are committed to working with our foreign friends to stop the inflow of stolen funds from Nigeria into their countries and recovering what is there already.  These assets, when repatriated will be put to building our infrastructure.
“It is my pleasure to perform the opening ceremony of the ‘’Economic and Financial Crimes Commission’s Headquarters,” the president declared.
 



			
			Post Views: 
			114