Share this on WhatsApp



The leaders of the robbery gang that struck banks in Offa in Kwara on April 5 are reported to be making startling confessions.
The robbery led to the death of more than 30 persons, including policemen and loss of millions of Naira.
As families of victims are mourning their loved once killed in the operation, the robbery gang leaders are making mind boggling confessions.
No fewer than 22 suspected in connection with the bank robbery, including the ring leaders, are currently detained for investigations.
According to a reliable source, a dismissed Corporal in the Nigeria Police, Mr. Micheal Adikwu, lead the operation.
He was assisted by another leader, Mr. Kunle Ogunleye aka Arrow, and one Abel and others.
They have confessed to the operatives of the Inspector-General of Police Special Intelligence and Response Team (IRT), led by Deputy Commissioner of Police, Mr Abba Kyari.
Adikwu, the dismissed corporal, who organised and led the bank robbery operation has confessed to have killed over 20 people, majority of them policemen.
“Adikwu was formerly working with the Kwara State Police Command, SARS unit, before he was dismissed for allowing suspected armed robbers detained, to escape. Since then, he had been embittered and vowed to deal with policemen.
“Adikwu told IRT operatives that his killing of the policemen was not a mistake, but quite deliberate.’’
“Adikwu, in prison, has been threatening to the hearing of other inmates, that he will kill as many policemen as possible once he has the opportunity.’’
He is reported to have vowed that he would continue to kill policemen because of his dismissal from the force and be sending him to prison for release robbery suspects.
A member of the gang, Kunle Ogunleye aka Arrow, also confessed to have killed two people.
Another member of the gang, Abel, confessed to have killed five people.
Abel reportedly said: “I killed five people, but I sprayed bullets on many people. I don’t know if they died. I can only confirm the death of five people, who I witnessed myself.”
“They also confessed to have gone to Offa three times on surveillance mission.
“The police station and banks were carefully studied. Adikwu led the first team to enter the police station, while others stayed outside.
“ He confessed he led the three gang members into the station. The four of them walked into the station like they came to lodge a complaint. They concealed their rifles in their clothes and immediately they entered the police station premises, Adikwu opened fire and killed the station guard.
“He confessed killing nine people in the police station and carried their rifles.
“They confessed to have taken tramadol and other drugs before embarking on the operation. They killed over 30 people on that day.
“After the operation, he went to each of the banks which were being robbed to issue orders. He was captured on CCTV shouting at his members, telling them what to do and what not to do,” the source further said.
Arrow is quoted to have said: “I was among the three people that entered the police station with Adikwu, but I didn’t shoot or kill anyone. It was Adikwu that shot and killed all the policemen. He went from one office to the other, killing everyone. We only gave him cover.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment