Share this on WhatsApp



By Esther Egbe
National Daily gathered summary of Nigeria players abroad performances ahead of FIFA World Cup in Russia 2018 which is near.
ENGLAND:
Alex Iwobi: He was on for the entire match duration as Arsenal’s hopes of a top-four finish all but ended when they fell 2-1 at Old Trafford to Manchester United.
Ola Aina: The left-back was on for all 90 minutes when Hull City fell 2-0 at home to Cardiff City.
Bright Osayi-Samuel and Eberechi Eze: 21-year-old Osayi Samuel scored his first professional goal in QPR’s 3-1 win over Birmingham City, while Eberechi Eze was voted the man of the match after a stellar performance for Rangers.
RUSSIA:
Ahmed Musa: The winger was in action for the entire match duration as CSKA Moscow held Zenit St Petersburg to a goalless draw away from home.
Aaron Samuel and Brian Idowu: Idowu was on for all 90 minutes while Samuel was introduced after the hour mark but they could not stop Amker Perm from losing 2-0 at home to Spartak Moscow.
SPAIN:
Oghenekaro Etebo and Imoh Ezekiel: Etebo was on for the entire match duration while Ezekiel was withdrawn after 69 minutes as already relegate Las Palmas drew 1-1 at Espanyol.
TURKEY:
Ogenyi Onazi: He returned to action after recovering from a hamstring injury as Trabzonspor maintained their top 5 status with a 2-1 win away at Antalyaspor.
Kenneth Omeruo and Samuel Eduok: Omeruo was on from start to finish while Eduok was introduced in the 78 minute when Kasimpasa lost 4-1 at home to Fenerbahce.
CHINA:
Odion Ighalo: The red-hot striker continued his mesmerizing form in front of goal as he grabbed a brace for Changchun Yatai in their 2-1 win over Shanghai SIPG.
Mikel Obi: The Eagles’ captain put in a decent shift for Tianjin Teda but they fell 1-0 away at Beijing Renhe.
BELGIUM:
Peter Olayinka: The attacker netted his 9 league goal of the season when he grabbed the winner in Zulte Waregem’s 2-1 win away at Royal Excel Mouscron.
Abdul Ajagun: He was on for the entire match duration as KV Kortrijk defeated Lierse SK 2-1.
Chuba Akpom: The on-loan Arsenal forward scored his fourth goal since joining on-loan in the winter as Sint-Truidense trashed KV Oostende 4-1.
HOLLAND:
Fred Friday: The attacker scored his 5 league goal of the campaign but it proved to be a mere consolation as Feyenoord beat Sparta Rotterdam, 3-1.
Sadiq Umar: The attacker had just five minutes of action after coming off the bench in the closing stages as NEC Breda convincingly dispatched Heerenveen 3-0.
Kelechi Nwakali: The former Golden Eaglet captain converted from 12 yards but could not prevent MVV Maastricht from going down 2-1 at Jong Ajax
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment