Share this on WhatsApp



Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State has assured delegates who voted for Prince Dayo Adeyeye at the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primary election last Tuesday that they have nothing to fear as the contest was among family members.
The governor promised that those party members would be accommodated in the party structure in the preparation for the July 14 governorship election, affirming that nobody should entertain any fear of reprisal.
Fayose on Thursday in Ikere-Ekiti, welcoming the Deputy Governor, Prof. Kolapo Olusola Eleka, who won the primary, back to the state from Abuja where he went to collect his Certificate of Return at the PDP National Secretariat, declared that PDP would win the governorship election.
“The process through which Prof. Kolapo Olusola Eleka emerged as our party’s candidate was free, fair and credible and nobody can fault that. For those who did not vote for him during the primary, we are all members of the same political family and there is no need for fear.
” However, whoever refuses to be placated is on his own. Anybody who decides to commit political suicide is on his own. Somebody said he is leaving the party and is not yet sure of where he is going, he is on a political suicide mission. We are for Eleka and by the grace of God, he will win come July 14 this year,” the said.
Eleka, in his remarks to the mammoth crowd that came to welcome him, promised not to let the people of the state down.
“I thank God, my political father and leader, Governor Ayodele Fayose and the good people of Ekiti State for their support and for today’s event. I promise to build on the solid foundation laid by Governor Fayose and I will be a governor of the people too. We won’t disappoint Ekiti people and the good works would continue,” he said.
The PDP candidate said the people of his hometown, Ikere, would show their appreciation by voting massively for the party in the election and subsequent ones.
The defeated governorship aspirant, Adeyeye, in less than 24 hours after losing the PDP primary election, dumped the party. However, he was not certain where he was going; he merely urged his supporters to be calm that he would announce the next direction to rake later.
Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress (APC) will hold the rescheduled governorship primary election in Ekiti on Saturday. Governor Al Makura of Nasarawa State, chairman of the Eikiti State governorship primary election committee, on Friday said that measures have been put in place to prevent the repeat of the last Saturday experience when the primary was obstructed by party agent of an aspirant.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment