Share this on WhatsApp
Piqued by the ugly trend of bloodletting, that now pervades the land in a particular region of Nigeria, the Aare Onakakanfo of Yoruba land, Otunba Gani Adams has pleaded with President Muhammadu Buhari to be proactive in finding a lasting solution to the gory tales now becoming a recurring decimal.

He urge the President to do everything within his powers to stop the incessant spate of wanton killling  across the land, arguing that in a situation of massive insecurity in the land, such as is prevalent in the country, the much sought development will not be seen.

Adams situate his worries in the alarming scope and trend the killing is assumming, as according to him, it seem to be a calculated attempt to wipe out a region of the country, in what may be an ethnic cleansing, even though there are other pockets of crises in almost all regions of the country.

The new Aare who doubles as national coordinator of the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) and founder of Oodua Progressives Union (OPU) with presence in 82 countries of the world made the assertion while speaking with newsmen on Tuesday during his 48th birthday celebration held in Lagos.

In his view,“Every reasonable person in Nigeria should be worried, every sincere and humane Nigerian should be worried, we have never experienced this kind of killings in a year since our independence, this is the worse type of bloodletting in the history of this country.

“Nigeria is bleeding, we can see that apart from South West all the other political zones are not crisis free, there are lots of insecurity in our zones and I pray that God almighty will come upon us and stop this unnecessary and unwarranted killings.

“I sympathise with our brothers and sisters in Benue, Taraba, Nasarawa and all over the middle belt. Even this is also reflecting in the core North and it is unusual, since 2015, we have not had much problems in the North West, but now this unwarranted killings is spreading to the North West, so, I can see that Nigeria is bleeding and I saw how the Christian association rose up, and I see a situation of ethnic cleansing in the middle belt.

“I am using this opportunity to appeal to Gen Muhammadu Buhari, our President to do something to stop these unwarranted killings, because of the major reason of being in government is to protect the lives and properties of the citizenry.

“One, thing, when there is protection of life and property, every other thing follow, there will be an enabling atmosphere for development to thrive, but in a situation where a citizen is not even secured among his fellow citizens it is unwarranted and highly condemnable by any person in the country.

“Even with the President of America, Donald Trump, he even understand that Christians are being killed in Nigeria, we don’t want religious war, we don’t want ethnic cleansing in our country, we want to live in peace and harmony so that we can be part of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” he said.

The birthday which attracted several dignitaries from across the country including representatives of the Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu, representatives of the Alake of Egba land, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, the Zaki of Arigidi, Akoko land, Oba Yisa Olanipekun.

Also present were the representatives of the governors of Osun, Rauf Aregbesola, governor of Gombe, Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, Ogun State governor, Ibikunle Amosun and his Anambra State counterpart, Willy Obiano among many others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment