Share this on WhatsApp



The former Chairman of Agege Local Government, Mr. Jubreel Abdulkareem had decried the attempt by an alleged camp within All Progressive Congress in Agege to indict innocent party members for the gruesome murder of Nurudeen Olanose, who was shot dead during the APC congress in Agege two days ago.

Abdulkareem made this disclosure while mourning the deceased,whom described him as a reliable party man who belonged to his camp and was loyal to the cause of the progressives, saying the late Olanose would be greatly missed.

He prayed for the repose of the soul of the deceased and asked God to give his family the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.

He implores concerned authorities to unravel the circumstances surrounding the death of Nurudeen especially as he was shot dead during the APC LGA congress held  at the Central Primary School, Oniwaya Road,  Agege.


According to Mr. Jubril there are so many illegalities going on within the party in Agege Local government which the leadership, through Prof. Tunde Samuel, have tried to control with the harmonized list to forestall any breakdown of law and order.


“It’s very painful we lost Olanose to the cold hands of death, we want peace in Agege, as we don’t believe politics is a do or die affair but see how it turned out; a gentleman who believes in the liberation of Agege is murdered, just because a winner always wants to take all”

He said most of the people who belong to his own camp were not allowed into the venue of the congress, but explained that even during the Ward Congress held before the last one, materials were hijacked by some people.

The former Chairman, who said his own people were deliberately shut out of the premises of the congress, so they were denied access into the venue in spite of the fact that they were eligible to vote, wondered why some people while addressing the press on the matter, tried to heap the heinous crime on members of his camp, saying “how can a member of our camp kill or shoot Nurudeen who is our own person. Let us fear God.”

He called on the Lagos State Police Commissioner, Mr. Edgal Imohimi, to use his good offices to investigate the matter thoroughly and bring to book “the masterminds of the this crime who have cut short the life of our very loyal disciple whose sudden demise is a great loss to our camp”

He also urged the CP to please release the innocent people that were arrested as they are all agitating alongside the late Nurudeen for their right to be part of the process but where shut out of the gate to the school premises before they were arrested.

They are; Bosun Adigun, Kabir Kareem, Sabitu K. A. Alhaja Bimbo Kuku, Alhaja Idayat Olokode, Mrs Omotoso, Mr Ogunbona and five others.





Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment