Share this on WhatsApp



By Ediale Kingsley
You may want to call it the non-orthodox treatment or simply going the extra mile to fight political apathy and non-participation in the electioneering process. A Nigerian woman is asking that wives starve their husbands of sexual pleasures or procreation if they don’t have their Permanent Voters Card (PVC).
Her name is Omoni Oboli and this treatment is an extension of her cinematic theme as delivered by her movie titled Wives On Stike.
And the thing is her latest sermon is not a movie scene, neither is it a cinematic work of art. She’s come out in a viral broadcast to pass the obligation to her fellow married women.
In the video she assumed that the women had already gotten their PVCs, before postulating the idea, ‘that before wives get into bed and have sex with their husbands, they ask that the husbands show their PVC’.
And this PVC is suggested to be the gate pass for sex.
In the Wives On Strike movie, a group of market women deny their husbands intimate affection in a bid to stir them into making a decision. And In the sequel, ‘Wives on Strike: The Revolution movie’ the issues are further heightened as the market women fought against domestic violence after one of them was beaten to death by her husband. This leads to yet another strike by the women against their husbands forcing their hands to stand up for what is right.
Omoni began her formal movie career with her first movie role in Bitter Encounter (1996), where she played a secretary. Her next was Shame. She then went on to play the lead female character in three major movies; Not My Will, Destined To Die and Another Campus Tale. After enjoying a brief career in 1996, Omoni left the movie industry to complete her university education. She married immediately after school and did not return to the industry until a decade later.
She has several screenplays to her credit, including her film Wives On Strike as well as The Rivals, a movie she co-produced with her friend and which won the prize for Best International Drama at the New York International Independent Film & Video Festival. It was the first Nigerian film to be premiered since the festival’s inception in 2003. The movie was given a 3-star rating out of 4 by the festival’s judges.
Omoni has played lead roles in mainstream films, including: The Figurine (2009), Anchor Baby (2010), Being Mrs Elliot, and Fifty (2015). She is also the first actress from Nollywood to win Best Actress in two international festivals, (that are not organized by Nigerians or Africans), in the same year (2010).
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment