Share this on WhatsApp



By SUNDAY ODIBASHI
Dr. Kayode John Fayemi, Minster of Solid Mineral Development and former Governor of Ekiti State, on Saturday, May 12, 2018, won the governorship primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
The primary election result announced by Governor Tanko Al Makura of Nasarawa State, Chairman of the Ekiti State Election Committee, showed that Fayemi got 941 votes to beat former Governor Segun Oni and 31 other aspirants in the rescheduled primary election held under a very right security.
Governor Al Makura declared Fayemi winner of the APC primary at about 11.20pm and accordingly presented him with the certificate of returns immediately.
Al Makura narrated that 2618 delegates were officially recognized by the party; accredited delegates were 2327; valid votes were 2313 and invalid votes 11, while three delegates abstained from voting.
Voting took place between 1.30 and 4.30pm delegates concluded voting and departed home while electoral committee members conducted the counting and declaration of result thereafter.
The primary was contested by 32 aspirants. Babafemi Ojudu, Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari, had withdrawn from the race.
Former Governor of the state, Segun Oni, came second with over 431 votes, while Ojudu who did not participate in the primary election had 10 votes.
Some of the aspirants such as Biodun Amudipe and Patrick Adekunle did not score a single vote while Senator Ayo Arise; Bamidele Olumilua’s son, Muyiwa polled two votes and Opeyemi Bamidele scored eight votes.
Fayemi, Ekiti Governor October 16, 2010 to 2014, thus emerged the APC candidate to slug it out with Deputy Governor of Ekiti State, Kolapo Olusola, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and others in the election on July 14.
Fayemi ion his acceptance speech commended the election committee, other aspirants involved in the transparent election, expressing that the victory is for all stakeholders in the party and the state. “This victory is not mine alone, it belongs to my co-contestants, our party, the APC, and Ekiti people who desire a better tomorrow,” Fayemi declared.
The minister remarked that “the people have spoken and the voices have been heard resoundingly.”
Fayemi, however, told the Ekiti people that he us not on a vengeance mission but has duty to perform for better development in the state. He promised to give priority to education and human capital and physical infrastructure development.
There were insinuations of money inducing the decision of the delegates. Virtually all the aspirants were said to have paid out money to delegates; perhaps, the highest spender carried the day.
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC has set May `15 deadline for submission of names of governorship candidates of political parties for the July 14 election in Ekiti.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment