Share this on WhatsApp



 
President Buhari has approved a total of N10Billion for the rehabilitation of communities affected by violent attacks in parts of the country, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, made the disclosure today during his visits to two Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps in Benue State.
The Vice President also stated that the President asked him to oversee the rehabilitation of the affected communities.
Prof Osinbajo told the IDPs in camps in Abagana and Daudu that, “I am here as representative of the President who was here in March and had asked that a study be done on the situation. Mr. President now wants to do three things: to provide more effective security, especially in the affected communities, to ensure that our people can go back to their homes and before then rebuild their homes and to restore the farms, support traders and ensure education of the children.”
He continued: “Mr. President says I should ensure all these things are done.”
The Vice President added that to pay for the forthcoming rehabilitation, “the President has approved some money already to restore places that have been destroyed. A total of N10B has been approved and we intend to start the rebuilding.”
He assured that the places that would be rebuilt shall be better than what it was before, adding that this is the right of the IDPs as Nigerians and is not a favour from the government.
As at press time the Vice President was holding a town hall meeting in the State capital with stakeholders. In attendance at the meeting holding at the Government House are traditional, religious and others leaders in the State.
Prof Osinbajo, who was earlier received on arrival at the Makurdi Air Force base by Governor Sam Orton, was accompanied by the Minister of Agriculture, Chief Audu Ogbeh; Director-General, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Mustapha Maihaja; among other Federal Government officials. The VP will be visiting more IDP camps Wednesday morning.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment