Share this on WhatsApp



Nigerian Singer, Tekno has set an ambitious target for himself. The singer has promised his fans to sin a Grammy award. He recently tweeted that he is going to win a Grammy Award one day. Tekno whose recently released single Jogodo is enjoying rave reviews and airplay, has come out to make a big promise that even artistes of higher standing have not made.
Tekno boldly stated in his recent tweet that he would win the elusive Grammy award one day. The Grammy award has been considered the biggest achievement for Nigerian artistes. Several artistes, in the past, have publicly confessed their aspirations to the award but it has remained elusive to them. Tekno is now saying he would do the unthinkable by winning a Grammy award.
The Triple MG singer has been working towards achieving this goal and one of his biggest moves yet, is his rumored work with International rapper, Drake. The two were seen together towards the tail end of 2017 and it is believed that they have worked on projects that would be released in the future.
Many believe that Tekno’s best chance of winning a Grammy is tied to his dealings with Drake.  While others believe it’s as a result of being black listed by the headies award.
You may recall, that ahead of the highly anticipated Headies awards, Nigerian music sensation, Tekno, was disqualified from the highly coveted “Next Rated” category in the 2016 edition.
The award ceremony that happened on December 22, was embraced with criticisms from top notch musicians in the industry. Tekno had lambasted the organisers for including him in the “Next Rated” category.
In an Instagram post made before the show, he said “Next rated after how many years! Let’s be honest pls”.
Revered video producer, Clarence Peters, had also criticized the awards.
 “In a year that these men gave us some of the most amazing visual interpretations mainly Darey’s “Pray for me” by @mexemania & Kiss Daniel’s “Jombo” by@ajefilmswork works, respectfully, it breaks my heart that The Headies don’t deem it fit to recognize their outstanding work.
“To my brothers: from Dir Q, to @adasacookeyto Frizzle&Bizzle, from Gambit to LA, from Matt Max to Avalon to TOSIN IGHO, SESAN to MOE to MEJI etc …. We know what we put in.
“Awards don’t define us, WE DEFINE POPULAR CULTURE not just in Nigeria, but across the continent, so I salute you all”.
Prolific rapper, Yung6ix, had also, then, described the award as being ‘Tribalistic”.
Organizers of the awards, however, sent out a message to all aggrieved parties explaining why some artistes were not included that year, blaming their exclusion on non-submission of materials.


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment