Share this on WhatsApp



The joint committee of the Senate and House of Representatives investigating the invasion of the Upper Chamber and stealing of mace has summoned Senators Ovie Omo-Agege and Ali Ndume over the incident.
Chairman of the investigative committee, Senator Bala Ibn Na’Allah, was gathered to have issued the summon at the committee’ meeting in Abuja on Tuesday.
The Committee’s summon on Tuesday relied on testimonies from heads of security agencies in the National Assembly who said that Senator Omo-Agege (APC, Delta central) led seven unauthorised personnel into the Legislative Chamber and subsequently disrupted the plenary session on Wednesday, April 18, 2018.
Senator Ndume (APC, Borno South) was alleged to have prevented the mace keeper from halting the stealing of the mace by hoodlums who invaded the Chamber in the company of Omo-Agege.
Reading the summon, Senator Na’ Allah remarked that following “the testimony of the Sergeant-At-Arms before the committee, you (Mr. Ndume) are alleged to have prevented the mace keeper from taking away the mace to safety”.
Senator Na’Allah further, declared: “The committee has, therefore, deemed it necessary to invite you in order to respond to that allegation.
“As regards to Omo-Agege, based on the testimony of the DPO, the SSS and the sergeant at arms, you are alleged to have entered the National Assembly accompanied by seven persons who allegedly took the mace of the Senate during plenary session on April 18, at about 11.30am.
“All those who testified, stated that the said people were cleared into the chamber based on your confirmation that they were with you.
“The committee, in pursuance of this, has deemed it necessary to formally invite you to respond to these allegations on Wednesday, May 16 at 11:00am.”
Ndume was previously suspended over controversies on the confirmation of Ibrahim Magu as the EFCC substantive Chairman.
Meanwhile, Omo-Agege was absent at the Tuesday Senate plenary after his suspension was nullified last week by the federal high Court, Abuja, and the Senate conceded to abide by the judgment.
 


Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment