Share this on WhatsApp



 
Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) have assured electricity consumers in Ibeju-Lekki and its environs of improved power supply, which would see them enjoying 12 to 15 hours electricity daily, up from the previous six hours.
Mr Adeoye Fadeyibi, its Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer made the pledge at the company’s Town Hall Meeting with customers in Ibeju-Lekki axis of Lagos on Friday.
He said that the response of the customers at the meeting had been very encouraging, as they had spoken with one voice.
“If we give them electricity and the bills come along, they will be willing to pay the bills.
“Now, we are both committed; this is fantastic. We in EKEDC will go back to our table and come back with solutions, which is improved power supply to the areas.
“So, by the time we are here again for another town hall meeting, they will tell us that supply has improved, and we would have fulfilled our promise,” Fadeyibi said.
He, however, urged those in the areas to expose energy thieves around them, in order to have reduction in what they called “crazy bill’’.
Fadeyibi said that bills were shared to consumers by the company based on what the meters from their different communities recorded for the month.
“What you call crazy bill is not crazy according us in Eko Disco; we have an approved methodology for billing consumers who do not have functional meters.
“It is what we get from your transformer monthly that is being shared among the consumers.
“So, if your neighbours are tapping power daily or you see welding machines nearby and you think it is our responsibility to hold them, it will reflect in your bills.
“Expose your neighbours who are bypassing meters or anybody that is tapping supply from our electric poles now.
” This is for the benefit of both parties,” he said.
Fadeyibi assured the residents that the prepaid meter roll out programme of the company would soon be extended to them, urging them to be patient with the company.
On equipment maintenance, the EKEDC boss said the management and board of the company had already been mandated since December 2017 to carry out a clear maintenance programme which had kicked off.
He said that consumers would soon begin to see a lot of improvement based on the programme.
The Chairman of the forum, Mr John Poto, said members of the community were delighted with the response of the EKEDC boss to most of the issues raised.
Poto thanked the EKEDC for its commitment to increasing the electricity supply in the area to at least 12 to 15 hours daily.
According to him, this is good enough for the residents, who were pleased that the EKEDC had promised to look into all issues raised in the meeting.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment