Share this on WhatsApp



The Nigerian Army has reassured that operations are sustained by the military to rescue the remaining Dapchi schoolgirl in the Boko Haram captivity, Leah Sharibu, as well as the Chibok girls.
A former Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole, Major General Attahiru Ibrahim, Army Deputy Chief of Policy and Plans, on a programme on the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) monitored by National Daily from Lagos, reaffirmed the efforts of the military to ensure that Sharibu and the remaining Chibok schoolgirls would be reunited with their family members “very soon.”
Ibrahim expressed optimism that the military operations would end in delivering the desired results and popular expectations on the freedom of Leah Shaibu and other abducted citizens by the Boko Haram terrorist.
“The government is also making tremendous efforts on not only Leah Sharibu, but other Chibok girls. Very soon, they will be joining their families. I am very optimistic about that.
“We are going to have them back. I can assure you about that. There are a whole lot of non-kinetic operations that are ongoing,” he declared.
More so, the Nigerian Air Force also said more response units have been established in the states of Nasarawa, Benue and Taraba ravaged by Fulani herdsmen killings to contain the onslaught.
Air Vice Marshal Olatokunbo Adesanya, NAF Director of Public Relations and Information, disclosed that about 7,000 personnel had been recruited in the last three years to reinforce the new units.
“These units have been populated with special forces. The whole idea is to complement the existing security arrangements in those areas. In the last three years, we have recruited over 7,000 personnel to have adequate manpower.
 “The air force has taken steps to take security to the people in line with the directive of the President. One of these is the Quick Response Group. We have one in Zamfara State. We have others in Nguroje area of Taraba State, Agatu area of Benue State and Doma area of Nasarawa State,” he said.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment