Share this on WhatsApp



Manchester United are waiting to sell Paul Pogba before they confirm the signing of Lazio midfielder Sergej Milinkovic-Savic, according to Italian agent Matteo Materazzi.
Pogba has had an inconsistent season at Old Trafford, while his relationship with manager Jose Mourinho reportedly strained after he was  left on the bench for a number of high-profile matches.
And there are rumours that Pogba will leave this summer as Mourinho looks for a midfielder that will suit his style of play more than the France international.
Milinkovic-Savic is one player that the Red Devils have been linked with and Materazzi, brother of former Inter Milan defender Marco, thinks United have already sealed a deal for the Lazio star.
When asked if there is a risk Milinkovic-Savic would leave, Materazzi told French outlet RMC Sport:“In my opinion, he has already been sold for a few months to a team, Manchester United, which is waiting to sell a big [name], Pogba, to formalise the Serbian[’s arrival].
“Lazio is the team that worked better with the human material that was available: hats off to [Igli] Tare and [Simone] Inzaghi.”
“But, one thing, he’s got great stats, robbing possession, keeping the ball. I think he’s very similar to Fernandinho, you know that slim build, he was part of that fantastic Monaco team last year that got literally dismantled.
“A great addition to the squad. He’ll tick a lot of boxes.
“And I think Liverpool’s rebuilding is, I say easy, ‘cause it’s never easy, I mean easy in the sense that [Manchester City boss] Pep Guardiola last year knew he needed a keeper and two full-backs.
“Liverpool’s is quite simple. They need a goalkeeper, a centre-half, a centre forward and certainly a midfielder – the midfielder’s the first in the door. And he’s probably gonna have two because Naby Keita is gonna be coming to the club as well.
“The Liverpool move and change is happening now and it will be very interesting to see how many they do get in.”



Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment