Share this on WhatsApp

The royal symbol of Lagos, His Royal Highness Oba Rilwan Akiolu who marks his 15th year of ascendancy to the throne this year, has been described as a king whose reign gives room for development all around the state.



 
The Lagos State House of Assembly made this assertion at today’s plenary,as lawmakers took turns to shower encomium on the Lagos Paramount traditional ruler.

Hon. Lanre Ogunyemi raised this during matter of urgent public importance stated the celebration is worthy. He commended the efforts of the Oba towards various developments in the state, adding that Akiolu had greatly promoted cultural values in Lagos state.

“I stand to congratulate the royal father who has unrelentlessly played major roles in enhancing security in the state who is also a courageous king”.

Hon Tunde Braimoh described the royal father as a blessed king who has brought immense blessings to the state to an extent that the state which according to him has contributed to the growth of its population.

He said, “Before he was enthroned as Eleko, population of Lagos was nine million and now it has increased to twenty two million, this is parts of the blessings enjoyed in Lagos through the fortune of the king and this a commendable achievement.”

While congratulating the royal father, Hon. Yinka Ogundimu said Akiolu contributed immensely to the development of the country and particularly Lagos by supporting good governance.

Hon Bisi Yusuff described the king a wise and courageous traditional leader, adding “we can see during his tenure peace and stability is always maintained in Lagos state.

Hon. Sanai Agunbiade also commended, saying the royal father should be emulated in terms of good attitude and his generosity to the masses.

On his part, Hon. Abiodun Tobun said, “Oba Akiolu is an exemplary good leader that pays his tax regularly.”



In his contribution, the Deputy Speaker, Hon. Wasiu Sanni Esinlokun appreciated the members for the move and and prayed for the longevity of the king who he descibed “as a great leader whose style of administration has brought fortune to the state. Kabiyesi is a great leader who would never be forgotten in the history of the state in the context of economy and other development.”

The Speaker of the House, Rt Hon. Mudashiru Obasa reiterated that “he has been playing a fatherly role which has been helpful in various ways.”


He therefore directed the Clerk of the House, Mr Azeez Sanni to write congratulatory letter to the king on behalf of the House.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment