Share this on WhatsApp

Kano state governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, says the threats by members of the New Peoples’ Democratic Party (nPDP) bloc in the All Progressives Congress (APC) to dump the party will not in any how affects the chances of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019.

Ganduje who spoke on Monday at a news conference to mark the third anniversary of his administration said the claim of marginalisation by nPDP members does not hold water.

The governor, who is a member of the group, said most of the members hold key positions in the government of All Progressives Congress (APC), asking how that translates into marginalisation.

“I will give you an analysis that will show that they are not being marginalised. First of all, the Senate President is from the defunct nPDP, he is now the Senate President; he controls very important committees in which he singlehandedly approved chairmen of 30 committees – that is not marginalisation.

“You have the governor of Kwara state who is also a member of the nPDP. He has a whole government; how can he say he is marginalised?

“The Governor of Adamawa state is nPDP and he is now a governor. I am from nPDP and I am now a governor. We have most of us from the nPDP who are senators and House of Representatives members.

“You have the speaker of House of Representatives who is a member of the nPDP and a speaker under the banner of APC; how can he say he is being marginalized? He controls lucrative committees. He appoints the chairmen and membership of the committee’s singlehandedly, without interference from the executive. How can he say he is being marginalised?

He insisted that Kano will give the president five million votes, even if Rabiu Kwankwaso, his predecessor, leaves the party.

“Well, we are begging Kwankwaso not to move to another party, but if he decides to go, no problem–that is individual difference; and it cannot affect Buhari’s fortune of getting five million votes from Kano,” he said.

“So it is not the issue of the former governor taking his paraphernalia to another party. It is the issue of our commitment to win elections.   We are not going to say that there will be no obstacle; there will be obstacle, but we will surmount it; so, Buhari will get five million votes from Kano.”

After meeting with Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo on Monday, the group said it is yet to decide if it will remain in the APC.




Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment