Share this on WhatsApp



Senate President Bukola Saraki has pledged his continued support for the EFCC to become a strong institution in Nigeria.
He said this on Tuesday when he visited the new headquarters of the commission.
Saraki, the Senate, and the acting chairman of the EFCC have been fighting a cold war since 2015.
Ibrahim Magu is believed to have dug up enough dirt on Saraki and other members of the upper chamber.
The fear, many concluded, had led to the refusal of he upper house to confirm Magu as the commission’s substantive head.
But Saraki on Tuesday insisted there is nothing personal in the rejection of Magu’s appointment.
Although Saraki spoke glowingly about the edifice, he did not commend Magu or the effort of the commission in fighting corruption.
A statement by Saraki Chief Press Secretary, Sanni Onogu, in Abuja said the senator was particularly impressed by the quality of work done and the fact the the building was designed by a Nigerian architect.
Visiting the completed project, Saraki said, is part of his oversight functions, especially considering the contributions of the National Assembly to its realisation.
Speaking with journalists after a tour of the edifice, Saraki said that strengthening such institutions will help the nation tackle corruption.
“If you look at most projects in Abuja, I don’t think any project like this has been well-funded and that shows that despite all the noise you will hear, the National Assembly has supported where it matters because this is where it matters and I think we have done that,” he said.
“We might disagree on what those right things are but at the end, we must ensure that we build institutions, we support institutions and do what is right and we must continue to do that.”
The lawmaker said that the fight against corruption must continue in order to bequeath a better future to both present and up coming generations.
“I have always said that my own strong will is that as we fight it, we must fight it in ensuring that we strengthen the institutions,” he added.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment