Share this on WhatsApp

like Haaland vs. Keane, Ramos has a case in court




Egyptian lawyer Bassem Wahba has filed a complaint and lawsuit to FIFA with regard to Sergio Ramos injuring Mohammed Salah in Kiev.
Speaking on Egyptian television channel Sada El-Balad, Wahba revealed he has filed a complaint to FIFA and has accused Ramos of deliberately inflicting “physical and psychological harm” on Salah and Egypt.
“Ramos intentionally injured Mo Salah and should be punished about his actions,” he claimed. “I’ve filed a lawsuit and a complaint to FIFA.
“I’ll ask for compensation, which could exceed €1 billion, for the physical and psychological harm that Ramos gave Salah and the Egyptian people.”
With it quite clear that Wahba is unlikely to receive compensation from his lawsuit, the lawyer has promised to donate to “the state’s Long Live Egypt Fund.”
Shahzaib Shaheen says, “English FA and Liverpool FC should sue UEFA, Real Madrid and Sergio Ramos for the Mo’ Salah injury. Referring was horrendous. Refs need to protect players and not be biased.”
Here are some of the twitter reactions:
@heriberto04
“If this is real, very disappointed of @MoSalah, injury is a part of the game. Imagine if every player sue each other over injuries”.
@dukemax3
Salah didn’t do anything here, this is just a random Lawyer taking actions without Salah’s premission
@Adamsanifs
He’s desperate, a virus to the game of football‏
@welliey_phase
I think mo sala should just be a professional and accept the fate , they lost, he got injured ,that’s sport
@OKPO1
What if Liverpool players were after Ronaldo to injured him.
@welliey_phase
“real madrid don’t belong to the losing team”, if you understand what I mean
@OKPO1
“If this is the way you real win, I don’t want to be part of it”.
@welliey_phase
“Do whatever it takes to win a game, it’s that simple. If I may ask where the referee was when Salah was fouled?”
Ubong Okpo
‏”Sepp Blatter is splitting fire on how fifa rigged and fixed matches for the benefit of real”.
@Horlorunphemi
“Am 100% sure Ramos is gonna win. Cos seriously am sure those folk shouting here and there haven’t even gone back to watch the video again. Carvajah was injured, nobody is talking about that. Isn’t he a human being too. Wailers everywhere”
@richgunner_01
“Tell the lawyer Ramos father is not Bill Gates”
@Ovienrioba
“Lol that guy that tackled Demba Ba is still playing soccer”
“Everybody knows that Ramos deliberately fouled Mo Salah. He should be banned from the world cup”
There’s also a similar situation. That happened in England between Haaland and Keane.
Haaland Vs. Keane
Håland is often remembered for his feud with Roy Keane, whom he claimed wouldn’t dare look him in the eye, and he once said “I really dislike United and I can’t stand their players”.
In September 1997, when Manchester United were losing 1–0 to Håland’s Leeds United at Elland Road, Keane injured his anterior cruciate ligament trying to tackle Håland. As Keane lay prone on the ground, Håland criticised Keane and suggested that he was feigning injury to avoid punishment. Håland was booked as Keane was stretchered off the field and Keane was out of action for nearly a year afterwards.
In April 2001, Keane fouled Håland on his right knee, for which he was sent off. Of the incident, Håland said “I’m only glad my leg was off the ground, otherwise he would have done me a lot of damage”. Initially, Keane was simply fined £5,000 and received a three-match ban. However, his biography admitted that it was an act of vengeance over Håland for the criticism he received three and a half years previously (although Keane claimed this was inaccurate paraphrasing from his ghost-writer). After this revelation, Keane found himself subject to an FA inquiry and received an additional five-game ban, and £150,000 fine. Håland professes no lasting bitterness towards Keane, hoping only that Keane is different now, so that he can provide a better example to young people and the players he manages.
Injuries and retirement
At the time of Keane’s tackle, Håland’s left knee was giving him sufficient problems for him to have to play with strapping around it. After the tackle, Håland finished the match and played a midweek friendly for Norway coming off at half-time, and the next league game, coming off in the 68th minute. That summer, he underwent surgery on his left knee, but only managed a further 4 substitute appearances the following season and finally retired in July 2003 after failing to recover full fitness. Håland was originally contracted with Manchester City until the end of the 2004–05 seasons, but in his contract it was stated that City could terminate the contract if medical conditions indicated that he couldn’t play first-team football again, and decided to use this option.
Following the release of Keane’s autobiography in 2002, Håland and Manchester City stated that they intended to take legal action against Keane. However, it emerged that Håland had stated on his personal website that he had been playing with the injury to his left knee a few months,  that it did not receive a knock in the game to his left leg, (Keane went for his right leg) and that Keane did not cause his injury. Legal action was dropped in February 2003 after the club reviewed the medical advice. In a 2007 interview, Håland invited the interviewer to reach the conclusion that the foul from Keane was the root cause of his retirement as he never played a full match again.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment