Share this on WhatsApp



The Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of the Police Post at the National Assembly, Sulu-Gambari Abdul, has blamed the recent stealing of the senate’s mace on internal conspiracy.
Abdul made the blame on Wednesday while speaking at an investigative hearing into the incident by joint ad-hoc committee.
Abdul said the incident was an act of internal conspiracy among some security agencies and some lawmakers. “There should be cooperation between security agencies and the lawmakers but in this case, the attack came from the roof as the senators are not helping security matters,” he said.
“On April 16, there was an earlier hint that a group planned to invade the national assembly and disrupt activities, which called for a build-up of security with two units of mobile police mobilised to the complex.
“However, on April 18, at about 11am, my attention was drawn to a group protesting at the gate, and while I moved to address the group, I was informed that some people were running away with the mace.
“I signalled all the entry points that nobody drives in or out but three men approached me identifying themselves as security operatives and requested to be allowed to go.
“The strain of blood on their clothes made me suspicious and I ordered their arrest. In all, six people were arrested same day and handed over to the force headquarters alongside charms recovered from them.
“It was later that I observed that the protest was a diversionary attention to move me out and that the protesters were same group with those that attacked.”
Brighton Danwalex, the sergeant-at-arms, earlier said the report of the investigation into the incident revealed that Ali Ndume, a senator, instructed the men assigned to protect the mace not to touch it during the invasion.
According to him, it was wrong for them to take orders from Ndume.
He further said: “There is no functional walkie-talkie; we would have alerted all the exit points. The CCTV is not functioning and there is only one operational patrol vehicle and the entrance into the white house requires biometric doors.”
Bala N’allah, Chairman of the Committee, requested the police to furnish it with copies of station diary where entry of the crime was made.
He also directed that the committee should be given copies of the crime routine diary, pictures of those arrested and the transfer register explaining where the invaders were transferred to.
On April 18, suspected thugs invaded the senate during plenary and ran away with the mace — the symbol of authority at the national assembly.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment