Share this on WhatsApp
 
One of the governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti state, Kayode Fayemi, has accused some of his co-contestants in the botched primary of being too desperate, hence the disruption of the primary when things was not going their way.

Recall that the botched primary heard at the Olukayode stadium in Ado-Eki. Capital of Ekiti state on Saturday where thirty-three contestants were jostling for the APC ticket was disrupted by suspected thugs believed to be working for some aspirants in the race.

The exercise was going on smoothly but trouble broke out after some agents smashed ballot boxes, saying there were plots to manipulate the exercise.

Fayemi, who is the Minister of Mines and Steel Development in a statement issued by his media aide, Yinka Oyebode accused Babafemi Ojudu, a former senator, and Bimbo Daramola, an ex-member of the House of Representatives, of being too desperate.

Claiming to have secured the highest votes in the botched primary, Fayemi said the disruption was the height of desperation on the part of aspirants who saw defeat staring them in the face.

Fayemi, who said he was not surprised by the disruption of the exercise, disclosed that the security agencies had, been notified of plans by some aspirants to deploy hoodlums to disrupt the voting exercise.

He, however said that the security agencies took note of the information and promised to beef up security at the venue.

“It is quite painful seeing some desperate elements trying so much to rubbish the party we all laboured to build to national reckoning, out of share lust for power,” he said.
 
“If the quest for political position is to serve, then one wonders why the desperation being displayed by the likes of Femi Ojudu and Bimbo Daramola.

“Certainly the conduct of these desperate aspirants falls short of the minimum standards expected of anyone that professes progressive ideals. We urge our teeming supporters and loyal party members not to be discouraged by this despicable act. This surely shall pass, and better days are ahead. Our collective rescue mission has indeed begun.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment