Share this on WhatsApp



A research center revealed that about 21 senators and ministers are currently receiving salaries from their states as former governors, deputy governors as well as ministers and at the same time collecting salaries and allowances as members of the National Assembly and ministers.
Programme Director, African Centre for Leadership and Development, Mrs. Victoria Ose Udoh, at a one day workshop on salaries and emoluments of National Assembly members held at Regview Hotel, Kaduna, on Thursday, indicated that those earning double salaries are the Senate President (even though he has directed the Kwara State House of Assembly to stop his salaries), Rabiu Kwankwaso, Kabir Gaya, Goodwill Akpabio, Theodore Orji, Abdullahi Adamu, Sam Egwu, Shaaba Lafiagi, Joshua Dariye and Jonah Jang.
Others, according to her, include Ahmed Sani Yerima, Danjuma Goje, Bukar Abba, Adamu Aliero, George Akume, Miss Biodun Olujimi, Enyinaya Abaribe, Rotimi Amaechi, Kayode Fayemi, Chris Ngige and Babatunde Fashola.
She highlighted that the different state laws had indicated that a former governor in Lagos, for instance, enjoys the following benefits for life: two houses, one in Lagos and Abuja estimated to cost between N500 million and N700 million; 300 per cent of annual salary to be paid every two years and N2.5 million pension, among others.
In Rivers, a former governor and his deputy, enjoy one residential house for governor anywhere of his choice in the country, while for the deputy anywhere in the state and 300 per cent annual basic salary, among others.
“In Akwa Ibom State, the law provides for N200 million annual pay for former governors. Similarly, in Kano, the law provides for 100 per cent of annual basic salaries, six bedroom house and a 30-day vacation within and outside the country.
“In Gombe State, there is N300 million executive pension benefits for ex-governors. In Kwara 300 per cent of his salary as furniture allowance, five personal staff, etc; In Sokoto, a former governor receives N200 million as his entitlements.”
Udoh noted that the disclosure made by Senator Shehu Sani has serious implications for public accountability in the country. “We must commend him that for the first time since May 1999, the senator revealed the huge emoluments of the senators,” she said.
Udoh lamented that this was happening at a time when workers are owed arrears of salaries and the masses groaning under a recession.
The Guest Lecturer, Ambassador Chibuzor Okereke, in his paper titled ‘Fiscal transparency of annual payments of salaries and pensions for members of the National Assembly’ argued that even though the senators were not to blame for their emoluments, they have a moral duty to do the right thing. 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment