Share this on WhatsApp

The All Progressives Congress’ (APC) delegates at Ojokoro Local Council Development Area (LCDA) in Ifako -Ijaiye Local Government on Saturday adopted consensus candidates  for its council congress in Lagos.

That party delegates at the LCDA, who were screened before been allowed into the venue under the watch of the security agencies unanimously adopted Prince Adewale Bello as party Chairman.

Bello, the incumbent party chairman, was returned unopposed while Alhaja Bola Adu was chosen as the Vice Chairman.

The chairman, who was elated, said that he would continue to do his best in making the party a force to reckon with in the politics of Ojokoro.

Also speaking, Mrs Fatimo Oye-Balogun, who was adopted as the Women Leader noted that she would not let the party down.

“I don’t know what the people see in me. I accepted it after I first rejected it. Everybody wanted me, I don’t collect money here, I only spent my money.

“I will contribute my quota to protect the welfare of women,” he said.

She urged women in politics to use their offices to empower other women and shun all forms of greed.

Mr Isaika Opeyemi, the Financial Secretary said that the consensus was an affirmation of the unity in the party at the council level.

Mr Odeniyi Odeyemi, a delegate from Ward C said, “we are very happy that the process was peaceful and we thank God that the will of people prevailed without opposition.”


A member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon.Rasheed Makinde commended the party leaders and members for the spirit of oneness in the area.


Makinde, representing Ifako-Ijaiye Constituency II at the Assembly said: “It shows that our council is a unique one where everybody believes in peace and harmony and that’s what we have seen here today.


“The leadership of APC in Ojokoro LCDA has come together and come up with a single list which the LOC (Local Organising Committee) read out to everybody and all agreed to it.


“This is a sign that our party is moving forward and it is a good omen for our democracy.”

According to him, the development is a sign of maturity and harmony and the progress of party.

Mr Thaddius Uwanaka, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Officer, who monitored the congress, expressed satisfaction over the conduct of the delegates.

Uwanaka, INEC’s Assistant Electoral Officer II in Ifako-Ijaiye said: “The congress was through consensus, and there is nothing we can do since the people agreed on this and accepted it.

“There is no opposition, and we have accepted it. Everything is peaceful.”

The congress was held simultaneously across the local governments in the state
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment