Share this on WhatsApp



The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has described President Muhammadu Buhari Democracy Day speech as full of self-praise and false performance claims.

In a statement released by the opposition party spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan and made available to National Daily, the PDP said the ruling All Progressives Party (APC) failed to address issues agitating the minds of Nigerians, adding that the president speech was worse than the 2015 speech.

“The few Nigerians who bordered to listen to the address were miffed that, in the most insensitive manner, Mr. 

President failed to show the littlest empathy to millions of citizens groaning under the worst form of poverty, starvation and economic hardship occasioned by his misrule,” the PDP said.

“President Buhari’s aloofness to the plight of Nigerians is manifest in all the lines of the speech.

“In fact, no line in the supposed Democracy Day address had any inclination towards justice for victims of abuse of human rights, reported executive high-handedness, illegal arrests and detentions, extra-judicial executions as well as victims of killings and daily bloodletting in Benue, Taraba, Zamfara, Kaduna, lateau, Borno, Kogi, Yobe and other parts of the country, by insurgents and marauders.

“Mr. President, on Democracy Day, had no words of assurance on the unrelenting violation of our constitution; assault on the national assembly and erosion of personal freedom of citizens.
 
“The President said nothing on the humongous corruption going on under his administration, where APC leaders and cabal at the presidency have stolen over N10 trillion, mainly from a sector under his direct supervision.
 
“Incredibly, Mr President’s handlers chose to subject him to a fantasy trip, making false performance claims with phantom projects, muddling up economic statistics and ended up worsening his already diminished public perception.
 
“This is exactly why the PDP had earlier advised President Buhari not to border to address Nigerians on Democracy Day.
 
“Our citizens have endured under the misrule of the APC, keeping their hopes in the 2019 elections to get back our democracy on the platform of the repositioned PDP.
 
“In solidarity with Nigerians, the National Working Committee of the PDP has already held a meeting where it reviewed the circumstances and will formally address Nigerians on the issues of misrule of our nation in the last three years.”
 






 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment