Share this on WhatsApp



 
In the ongoing Uefa Nations League, Spain fell to England 2 goals to 3 in the land of the Spanish. And if you are under 30, that’s the first time you are seeing such. It’s something that has never happened since you were born.
If you are bellow 15 years it’s a total story entirely. This is the first time you have heard or seen, in your lifetime, Spain beaten by England.
The internet has gone crazy — Gaga, if you will (thanks to the ever brandishing English press). And the irony of the situation is the one that has always been beaten feels way better tonight than the one who should actually feel super duper for having such fantastic head to head records.
Perhaps this is why football is something else. And as the Spaniards of Luis Enrique stutter in performance. As they exposed their weaknesses early into the match in some incredible ways. You may want to consider the fact that England had the targets result to three goals without having a single Corner Kick.
You may want to know that a lot of Barca fans are having some chilling smile on seeing that on and off the Spanish side of the pitch had just one Barca player. Yes no Barca player on the bench, while Busquets played on the pitch.
What happened?
Isco had injury. Remember I have been saying a lot of good things about him for some time now? That’s because of his rising influence and affluence on the pitch.
Another thing that worked against Lucho was the lose squad he fielded. This squad was way different from the team that defeated Croatia 6-1.
And it’s this kind of match that has the winning manager taking the full credits.
Gareth Southgate is now a hero of some sort. Especially when all Liverpool fans are involved.
So let’s talk about the Never Walk Alone people. You are English, love football like Atiku likes to be President, support Liverpool, and according to the internal pop culture of the club you got the memo to hate Sterling, and so you actually hate the Manchester City little black guy, you hate him for dishing Liverpool and fishing for Pep.
So you fulfil all the requirements above. And you saw today’s UNL match the way all patriotic Nigerians sentimentally follow the Super Eagles matches. With the pump of passion and hope of excitements. You stood, getting hopeful to scream GOAL when the Three Lions score.
Tell me.
What happened?
… when it was Sterling The Hated that scored?
Did you jump to scream, ‘its a fucking goaaaaalllll’ ?
Or did you just slapped your outer feet to the wall that it was this useless idiot that scored.
What did you do?
Because I saw the match of Liverpool and Man City and was tired of the booings and trolls that blasted from the stadium whenever Sterling touched the ball.
It was so irritating that I tune down the TV volume to avoid the match commentary and just focused on listening to Simi’s Hallelujah song (Yeah, I know the song is actually owned by the dude that featured Simi but I don’t care).
So that’s what you guys made me do
— you guys made me watch a soccer match with soft music.
I forgive you all.
But I won’t forget. And I imagine some of you haters still didn’t celebrate.
It was the first goal and for the following reasons (plus the memo to hate) you refuse to jump and scream the GOAL celebration (you just stood and your heart leaped for joy, but your physicallity noticed it was the rejected guy that scored and so you wouldn’t rejoice) :
— No jump because you think what’s the gain if they eventually lose to Spain. Say 1-2. And then you could blame Sterling if it led to 1-7. That his first goal provocked the 7 bombardment.
— No jump because you think, ‘if I jump and a Man City supporter sees me jumping on a goal by Sterling, I’m toasted’.
— No jump because it still very much hurts that he dished your ass for Peps Spanish ass. And you are unhappy to see him spanking the same Spanish ass now in a different way.
I know you didn’t think he was going to score again and really think you jumped when he scored the second goal.
I think and can imagine you caring less about the f@cking hate ish. You just uncontrollably breaking loose to scream the GOAAALLL! Like a pregnant woman’s push. Careless if you farted while you curse and punch the air!!!
F#@king Goaaaaalllll
That moment something tells you to forgive the lad.
F#$king you…
You forgave after messing up my game at Anfied.
I forgive you.
In that same light. Odion Ighalo scored the hat trick in the last match against Libya.
Haters of him are Super Eagles fans, they are Nigerians. They have no time. They will shout goal. The first. The very first goal. They shouted without any promise or hope of the hat trick.
A typical Nigerian forgives immediately the goals comes in. And this has been the sustaining factor uniting the fans and players all decades long.
Okocha disappoints in his playing days, he is insulted immediately as we lose. The next day he uses his buttocks to dribble past 3 defenders, he’s forgiven, and recrown the Emperor!
So I know Odion Ighalo was immediately undressed of his Amaka status when the first goal entered. And him scoring a hat trick was just pretty much the icing on the cake. And that doesn’t mean his head won’t receive stones if he flops in following games.
And I don’t get why he showed the pressmen attitude after the match. What was he feeling like? Yekini? Already? Tueh!
Bros play your ball and enjoy the game. This is Naija not Yankee, China or England. Nigerians have their own book of behavior.
I imagine we had the flybouyant league in the NPFL. Let’s say Odion was playing for Rangers and he dished the club for MFM FC. Do you think he will be booed?
He will be beaten. A black left eye, maybe. But certainly not that childish booing.
Nigerians like to hail. The opposite of hailing for Nigerians is quietness not booing.
And maybe slapping and stoning.
Ighalo has gotten his groove back and that’s a good thing for Nigerians and his fans. The second leg saw him scoring a brace. Taking his tally to 5 goals in 2 matches. And that’s good stat.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment