Share this on WhatsApp



Juventus winger Federico Bernardeschi hails Cristiano Ronaldo, insisting “I’ve always preferred him to Lionel Messi”.
The Portuguese superstar joined the Bianconeri in a €100m deal from Real Madrid this summer, becoming the highest paid player in Serie A history.
“We all know Ronaldo the player and personally I’ve always considered him the best in the world,” Bernardeschi told Tuttosport.
“I’ve always preferred him to Messi. What I’ve discovered is that he’s an exceptional person, a humble lad with extraordinary personality which he transmits to everyone. It’s infectious. It’s in that regard that I’ve always preferred him to Messi.
“I remember the final of the European Championships when he had to go off injured in the first half, but on the bench he was an added coach.
“Juve was already an extraordinary club in terms of a winning mentality, with nothing to learn from anyone, but the arrival of Cristiano brought something more.
“Just think abut his red card against Valencia: the fact he’s won five Champions Leagues and five Ballons d’Or and cried because he was sent off tells you a lot about his passion.
“I went over to him to tell him to be calm, because he’s the best in the world and I didn’t want to see him cry. He didn’t deserved it because it really was an unjust red card.
“Having Ronaldo close is an example for the youngsters, even at a great club like Juve. You have to be intelligent, you’re training with the best player in the world and if you’re lucky enough to do that you need to try and steal a few things.
“It’s like riding a wave, he has helped me and still is. He’s an example to follow, obviously staying firm on your personality and objectives.
“I think Real Madrid have lost a lot, when the best in the world leaves you feel it. I think he deserves the Ballon d’Or, he also shone at the World Cup. He scored a hat-trick against Spain and not everyone can do that.
“[Luka] Modric is a champion, but if I have to judge an individual award then, in my opinion, Cristiano made the difference in everything, also on a human level.
“He’s a step above the others, over the past 10 years he and Messi have been so superior that there’s no contest. When they retire someone else can win.”
Presumably, then, everyone wants Ronaldo on their team for training games?
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment