Share this on WhatsApp
Cristiano Ronaldo’s former girlfriend Nareida Gallardo has rubbished the alleged claims that her ex assaulted American lady Kathryn Mayorga in Las Vegas.

There have been serious allegations against the Juventus superstar who was accused to have taken advantage of Mayorga in his hotel room in 2009,National Daily gathered.

￼The woman accusing soccer superstar Cristiano Ronaldo of sexual assault has been interviewed twice by law enforcement officers in recent months and plans to cooperate further, her attorney said Wednesday, as the Las Vegas police department has reopened its investigation into the case that centers around one of the sports world’s most famous athletes and an alleged assault from 2009.

￼Although Cristiano Ronaldo has denied the allegations claiming that those who accused him only want to use his name to promote themselves. And according to the latest report by UK Mirror, 35-year-old Nareida Gallardo who dated Ronaldo for eight months in 2007 explained that she is ready to testify in favor of the football star.

￼I was shocked when all this came out. “He was never ever aggressive towards me – not even near. I can’t see him forcing or holding down someone. He is not an aggressive guy in bed. “I’ve had partners who have been verbally aggressive or who liked to grab me hard and he isn’t like that.

￼“So far I haven’t been contacted. But if I am, I would be willing to go and give evidence in his favor,” Gallardo explained according toreports. Ronaldo and Nareida Gallardo split in August 2008 which was 10 months before American Kathryn Mayorga, 34, alleges that she was assaulted by the Portugal international.

￼National Daily learnt that Kathryn Mayorga, who has filed a civil lawsuit against Ronaldo alleging that he raped her in a Las Vegas penthouse suite nine years ago, is still in “active therapy” to deal with the emotional impact of the alleged assault, according to her lawyer, but he said she has been “given a lot of courage” by the #MeToo movement that has helped her speak out.

￼“Her decision to pursue this matter is important,” Leslie Stovall, the attorney, said during a news conference Wednesday, “because she is now advocating for herself.

“She wants justice, of course,” Stovall said, when asked what Mayorga wants out of this legal action. “She would want to not be the person who has had to live with this for the last eight or nine years.”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment