Share this on WhatsApp
“Everywhere you go baby, I go be your hand bag”
 
That’s Wizkid’s promise to Tiwa Savage.

And here are figures that might interest you as well:
 
Zero
Total number of comments made by Tiwa Savage’s husband, Teebillz. He’s gone mute. And quite frankly, he’s had less to talk about or show since the last fight with his wife that made the evening news. Then he spoke about the issues of Tiwa’s lifestyle and the whole world got to know he doesn’t buy Pampers for his baby. Now dude is completely mute.
 
One
One video has everyone talking. One couple has everyone hashtagging ‘PepperStew’ (new slang in Naija music dictionary).

One million plus
And it seems mission one has been accomplished. The video has made record. Crossing the one million views in 24hrs after release on YouTube.

Four
Tiwa’s comments since the video came out.

i. You break your own record that is why I f@ck with you lion. (She refers to Wizzy as a lion here)


ii. Bad energy stay far away. (To all those who think the video is tasteless)


iii. My relationship is not a community project.(responding to the bad reviews from the public)

vi. Introduction: President and first lady of the Pepper Stew Association (attached is picture of Wizkid and Tiwa).


 
This is what Ediale Kingsley, National Daily’s Head of Entertainment and Sports Desk, had to say about the video:


Tiwa, Wizkid.

 
What they decide to do with their hearts, private organs, other parts of their bodies are their private ‘cup of tea’.
 
That’s what some people say.
 
And the next question I want to ask is:
 
What about the work of art? Is the video their private business too? Or was it cooked for the public?
 
It was definitely cooked for the public. It was crafted to make the headlines and the social media trend list.
 
So it got what it attracted. 
 
So why are some people defending both kids (of Wizkid and Tiwakid)?
 
Why?
 
The only tangible thing about the music video is the bed having Wizkid and Tiwakid dance in romance. 
 
And the song didn’t feature Tiwa, by that I mean, Tiwa had no vocals on the song. So right here, Tiwa was playing a role in Wizkid’s video. She played the Tiwakid character. 
 
For only one reason. The social media trend!
 
Tiwa isn’t a video vixen nowadays. 
 
The last time she was a vixen was a long time ago. When she wanted to enter into the Mohit’s bed (sorry, I mean record label).
 
So it’s all strategy for Aunty Tiwa.
 
And on one hand it’s her f#$king business.
 
But every damn persons that can access the video, because it is public, has every f#$king right to express their opinion about the music video. 
 
The same people made these artists. Their views, their clicks, their data, their time. No celeb became a celeb by self acclaim.
 
If the people you prepared the food for say the food is salty. You should accept it. 
 
Or else why not cook the food for thy self. 
 
If they did all these in Wizkid’s bed and Tiwa became one more baby mama in Wizkid’s dynasty. Of course we won’t be talking about the theatricals of the bed we didn’t even see in the first place. 
 
The video was for public consumption. And the public have a culture. Call it whatever name you want, but the society says the food you cooked for them is salty. A large number of them think so. 
 
What does Ediale think. I careless. If she likes she can do another video of them both having it bare and nude. I don’t see her in my dreams. Maybe if it’s Simi, I could have one or two concerns. 
 
To say we can’t critique what is submitted for us to judge is quite being technically deceptive.
No public art is done without expecting a public literary appreciation.
 
Who danced, shared, sang and praised the Soco or the Malo videos? THE PUBLIC.
 
Who is giving this Fever video thumbs down? THE PUBLIC.
 
And they have their points.
 
I have noticed that some persons of this social media era are just full of biases and shits.
 
They take side with the famous and rich. 
 
And quite frankly, I even careless. I only care much when you drag all into it. 
 
The same people will crucify the poor for infidelity. But celebrate Ronaldo for rape (or they won’t say a thing about it).
 
The same people dance and love Olamide’s Story For The God’s rape song. 
 
They love and will defend Davido and choose to become a silent feminist when they sing that  OBO’s line “What of Carolina, That one Na gold digger”.
 
Just own your shit and let’s own ours. 
 
That video was uncalled for. If it is art, it is a lazy one and the people think it’s a waste of creativity.
 
And the people have always endorsed Wizzy’s videos. It doesn’t stop me from being a Wizzy fan. I just wondered what he needed the bad noise for. Publicity Stunt? They are both f#$king largeeee!!!
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment