Share this on WhatsApp



The rape to death case of Ochanya Ogbanje is getting the attention of everyone in the country. Political parties like KOWA are sending petitions to relevant bodies on the matter. The social media is agog with the story.
This is how Ediale Kingsley, National Daily’s Head of Entertainment and Sports Desk, narrates the sad ordeal:
Sad…
Ochanya raped to death.
Saddest part is the road of loneliness and how the world failed her. I imagine more of the situation in my head and my heart cries.
How do you start having sex with an 8year old grown baby?
This rape matter must become a serious grievous offence. Pardon me. It sounds like I am just waking up to reality.
This one case helps show the tragedy. I see Ochanya pains. I feel her abuse and I feel very lonely by the scary world.
I use Ochanya’s eyes to view the world, and I am frightened. It could be a damn place to live in. The world isn’t a pretty place. The world is dark. And quite darker for girls.
I just realized that we are not all the same. I feel guilty. I feel sad. I feel wrong. I feel terrible.
We haven’t truly been there for the girls. The world of a Nigerian girl is widely different from the world of a boy.
Shamefully but shamelessly, the sons of Ogbuja destroyed a life with their strenght and manliness. How they extracted joy with the same organ that pumped forceful pain to the girl’s body and soul is gory.
I imagine the blood and gore.
I am honestly divastated.
Honestly.
Helplessly.
Hopelessly helpless because the war is different.
Imagine this, she dies after falling terribly ill, she couldn’t walk, she died of Vesicovaginal fistula (sounds too painful for an adult, how much more a kid).
She fell to serial rape. For 5 years two adults molested this child. That 5 years, her real mother didn’t notice, her guardian mother didn’t notice. Her uncle experimented with her anus and vagina (I need to paint this image not to disrespect the dead, but to show the animalistic tendencies of the evil men).
Her uncle’s son (her cousin) started the raping thing as a hobby. Soon the father joined the son to make it Andrew and Victor Ogbuja family business.
But the father only got a wind of it when her daughter caught the boy in the act. The girl knew this was a sad thing and reported to the man figure, the symbol of authority and discipline, the Knight of a Catholic Church, the Lecturer in the Department of Catering and Hotel Management of the Benue State Polytechnic, Ugbokolo — their daddy.
Unknown to the girl, she was playing a scout. And had helped the demonic dad discover a dark pleasure.
So for this five years the society — Ochanya’s parent and immediate family, her extended family, Mrs Ogbuja (guardian mum in the house she got raped for 5years), the church, the school, the government, the police, the neighbors — didn’t know.
The society didn’t care to know.
I gat to paint this clear. I hope I can paint it clear enough. So we understand that we are all messed up as a society.
We have become too carelessly selfish. And really have no protection for the vulnerable ones in our society.
I cringe in dark awe when I see small girls begging in the street. Girls of ages 3-7 begging.
I usually feel like escorting them to the police station. So the parents can be punished and the children taken from them. But which police is interested in that? Where will the government put them?
Crazy place.
And the stupid local government authority of the disgusting Otupko L.G.A named a street after Ochanya.
What the heck does Ochanya need a street for. What does that do? How does that change any damn thing?
Lame.
Dear men… Let’s be a little sensitive.
Dear world can we try to make this world a little saner.
God help us. Ochanya rest in peace. Curses to the damn pain givers.
Here are some of the comments that followed Ediale’s piece:


 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment