Share this on WhatsApp


















The uprising of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), the Shi’ites Muslims, over the continuous detention of their leader, Sheik Ibrahim el-Zakzaky, has continued to generate palpable fear and apprehension in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, and its environs. The intractable protests and confrontations with the Nigeria Police has also been posing serious threat to the security operatives in ensuring the protection of lives and property within the country capital and the neighbouring states.
National Daily gathered that the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, has become sensitive to the security threats arising from the Shi’ites protests and accordingly, ordered all Commissioners of Police to be on red alert contain the activities of members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN).
The IG of Police in a statement by the Force Police Pubic Relations Officer, acting DCP Jimoh Moshood, on Tuesday, had directed the Police Commissioners, especially, those whose Commands fall within the territories of the threats of potential violent uprising by the Shi’ites. The IG ordered them to deal decisivelywith them in accordance with the law.
The FPPRO had stated that the IG directives indicated that, “They are to deal decisively in accordance with the law with the sect and prevent the group from causing breakdown of law and order in those States.”
The statement indicated that the I-G had directed  thorough investigations and prosecution of the arrested 400 suspected members of the IMN, who were picked up  by the police in Abuja on Tuesday during the sect’s violent protest, adding that they would be charged to court for terrorism.
The IG had cautioned that the Police would not tolerate lawlessness and disturbance of public peace by any group.
“The full weight of the law will be applied on perpetrators of violence and lawlessness that can lead to breach of the peace, and law and order anywhere in the country,” he had declared.
The IGP demanded residents of FCT and other contiguous States to be vigilant and go about their lawful engagements without fear.
On the fracas between the IMN and the security operatives, the Islamic Movement of Nigeria declared that about 50 of its members were killed on Monday along the Nyanya-Keffi expressway by the Nigerian Army.
National Daily learnt that a member of the IMN, Mohammed Gamara, also said that about 200 persons were injured.
“So far, I don’t have the exact number of the casualties and the martyrs but if we say they are more than 50, killed by the Nigerian Army, I don’t think I will be exaggerating,” Gamara was said to have declared.
The clashed with the security operatives during the Shi’ites protests in Abuja on Monday precipitated traffic gridlock for hours along the Nyanya-Keffi expressway.
National Daily further gathered that the Shiite protesters had attempted to break a barricade of soldiers around the flyover in Karu and take the laws into their hands but were resisted by the soldiers.
The Karu, Nyaya/Mararaba axis of Nasarawa State, was locked down during the IMN protests, obstructing free movement of residents in that outskirt of Abuja.















Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment