Share this on WhatsApp



 
There are indications of fresh hope for the rescue of Leah Sharibu, the only school girl still in the captivity of the Boko Haram out of the 109 school girls kidnapped in Dapchi, Yobe State.
Accordingly, the demand of the Boko Haram faction holding Leah Sharibu hostage for N100 billion ransom for the release of Leah indicated that negotiations may have been going on between the federal government and the insurgents.
National Daily learnt that a diplomatic source disclosed the N100 billion ransom demand at the weekend.
National Daily further learnt that the diplomatic source claimed to be involved in the negotiation for the release of Leah Shuaribu but had expressed the fear that the Boko Haram terrorists could acquire more weapons with the N100 billion ransom and perpetuate more terror on innocent citizens in Nigeria.
National Daily gathered that the federal government is seriously evaluating the consequences of releasing the huge amount of money to the Boko Haram terrorists.
The diplomatic sources were also gathered to have argued that payment of such huge amount of money to the Boko Haram may affect national security during the 2019 general elections.
“It is not that the government of Nigeria is not making efforts at getting Leah Sharibu out of the grips of the Boko Haram.
“But we are aware that the terrorist organisation holding her is demanding N100 billion. Though no amount is too much to get the soul of one innocent person out of danger, I think the government of Nigeria is considering many things.
“We all know that elections are ahead and that the terrorist organisation may also be planning to embark on inflicting damage on the people; government has to be careful and also be diplomatic about it.
“We are pleading that members of the Boko Haram sect be considerate in their demands as well. They should please release the girl to her parents,” the diplomatic sources were cited to have explained.
National Daily further gathered that the Defence Headquarters, Abuja, however, reassured that the military is making efforts to rescue all the captives of the Boko Haram terrorists, including Sharibu.
The Defence Director of Information, Brigadier General John Agim, was gathered to have declared: “Be assured that the military is doing all it should to rescue all the captives in the Boko Haram’s hold. The Nigerian military is the creation of the Nigerian state and therefore, Boko Haram is a problem of the Nigerian state and the military is called upon to tackle the problem.
“Therefore, the military needs the cooperation of the state and its citizens to tackle the problem. Our citizens should not stand aloof or believe that Boko Haram is a problem only for the military. No, we require everyone’s cooperation to end this insurgency.”
Sharibu is among the 110 pupils of the Government Technical and Science College, Dapchi, Yobe State, abducted by Boko Haram insurgents on February 19, 2018.
The negotiations between the Federal Government and Boko Haram led to the release of 104 of the 110 abducted Dapchi girls but Sharibu was held back because of her refusal to renounce her Christian faith and be converted to Islam.
Unfortunately, five of the abducted 110 school girls were said to have died in the captivity and buried by the terrorists.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment