Share this on WhatsApp



LAn elder statesman and retired Commissioner of Police, Alhaji Abubakar Tsav, on Thursday chided political actors and Government of Benue State for negligence of the welfare of the people which he said led to the tragic death of 40 persons in a boat mishap on Wednesday. Tsav decried that the Wednesday Boat mishap in Buruku LGA along River Katsina Ala in Benue State in which about 40 persons were feared dead, is tragic and sad.
The elder statesman protested: “This avoidable tragedy is a clear testimony that our Politicians are not doing enough to help our people. None of them thinks about constructing a Bridge in Buruku to serve our people.
“This can be built, if we lobby and are close to Federal Authorities. This is what Democracy is all about but is lacking among our Politicians.
“The Government of Benue State has not even considered it necessary to create or establish a Security cum-life saving Post on the Bank of River Katsina Ala in Buruku for life Savers for rescue operation during such boat mishaps.
“None of the Boats even carries, or is fitted with life-saving equipment.
Nobody cares.
“We waste our time making enemies through Anti-Fulani, ethnic and religious politics; yet pretend to love our people. What type of goat-hyena love is this, when we refuse to pay salaries and Pensions?
“When we fail to develop the state but instead divert State resources for our selfish and personal gains.”
Tsav remarked that it is now time for electioneering campaigns and these deceitful politicians will shamelessly go round with basket of lies to deceive the gullible electorate in order to obtain their votes.
“Enough of this deceit; if we do not unite with the North, how can we develop? We need true friends to develop and make the world a better place to live in.”
He was of the view that other states are developing and they are there deceiving themselves or allow themselves to be deceivbed in Benue State.
“I deeply sympathize with the people and families who lost dear ones in this boat disaster.
“May God Almighty have mercy on the souls of the deceased and may God avert such tragedies in the future,” Tsav declared.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment