Share this on WhatsApp

By Lanre Adesanya



The wife of Lagos State Governor,Mrs. Abimbola Ambode has urge the women folk to join hands together and breast tape a social change that would be beneficial to all facets of the society.
The Lagos State first lady made this assertion at the 18th National Women’s conference 2018 organized by the  Committee of Wives of Lagos State Officials, held at the  Eko Convention Center Eko Hotel & Suites, Lagos, theme: “strengthening our collective impact”.
Mrs. Ambode noted that women have clearly being able to influence the world positively by ensuring the growth and development of their countries.
“When we come together and collaborate, either in government establishments, privately owned businesses, N.G.Os or wherever, we tend to achieve significant and lasting social change that would be beneficial to all.
“We have the unique ability of looking at problems and coming up with solutions, that would transform lives and make the world a better place.
“Thus, women should learn to come together, support each other and discard unproductive habits. There is advantage in numerical strength.
“Women have continued to play roles that demonstrate how important they are to the progress of their countries economically, politically, socially and in all other areas that matters.
The Special Guest of Honour Owelle Rochas Anayo Okorocha  who was ably represented by the Edo state Governor Godwin Obaseki cited the enviable and  great impact of COWLSO in playing complimentary roles that is consolidating governance to the common people.
“This is a powerful network that a lot of us from other states are so envious that want to team up with you.

“Many states are now copying what you are doing in Jigawa and many states more will still key into it.

“Identifying and awarding inspirational women like Toyin Sokefun Bello(TY Bello) is a noteworthy initiative of COWLSO as women’s creative qualities are further emboldened.” Obaseki said.
Obaseki noted that inspirational woman award is a boost to genuine creativity, contribution and competence of women in Nigeria, worthy of being replicated across the country.
Governor Akinwunmi Ambode , the COWLSO Chief host and patron in his goodwill message delivered by his Deputy Dr. Idiat Adebule.
Recognized the roles played by COWLSO and urge them not to relent in helping to build a socially enabled society by selflessly contributing their quota to the success of  Lagos state.
Speaking with National Daily at the event, Hon.Omotayo Oduntan Oyeledun the Deputy chief whip of the Lagos State House of Assembly noted the importance of the conference and it’s impact in time past all across the state.
According to Oduntan women are better molders at the home front, businesses and the society at large, she affirms that more women are already being politically motivated and accepted by the people. She also cites the importance of COWLSO to women in Lagos and Nigeria.
Speaking on her House of Reps aspiration, she hinted that her mandate would still be restored going by the teeming support and poise of her constituents to vote for her as evidence at the All Progressives Congress primary held recently.
The Lagos State Commissioner for Wealth Creation Mrs.Uzamat Akinbile, also recounts the impact made by women in the society and especially in partisan politics.

“Nobody is stopping women from participating in politics but many of us do not have the strength it takes to participate actively in politics,so it is either of the sides.

“Not every women can really come to the forefront of politics due to personal issues, politics is quite stressful and you have some things to take of back home, coupled with other challenges facing them,  politics takes much of your time.

” Though the situation some of us find ourselves makes it a bit tasking and difficult to actually participate in politics.

“Definitely women have been doing so much to encourage others to come into politics, some have organised programmes that affords women basic knowledge of politics, thus preparing them for challenges they might face politically, so we have been doing extremely well.

“The COWLSO has been so impactful, we have learnt so much in time past, our women are well enabled for future challenge.” Akinbile affirms.

National Daily reports that the venue of the conference was filled to its brim by women all across the nation and other distinguished personalities who were there in their numbers to grace the three days conference which started on Tuesday 23rd day of October and would
close on the 25th.

A number of COWLSO branded new cars up for grabs by winners at the conference were seen packed at the entrance of the venue.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment