Share this on WhatsApp



By Ifeanyi Izeze
When the Zonal Pastor of Christ Embassy Abuja Virtual Zone, Dipo Fisho, only two days after the first mega crusade by the new zone announced another and even a bigger programme about four weeks from then, we were short of telling him “Pastor, aahhh only thou knowest o” as in Ezekiel’s altercation with God in the valley of dry bones.
However, all that was required from us was to be “willing and obedient” firmly believing that nothing we set our hearts to achieve will be impossible for us and that we did. It cannot be said enough that being in Christ Embassy is more than being in a church, it’s more than a vision. It is the Spirit of the Word and this is what the world needs to hear.
How else can anybody describe what happened at Evelyn Eve’s Park, Gwarimpa, Abuja on the night of 19th October into the morning of the 20th if not to say that “ It was a Total Experience” as the Zonal Pastor of Christ Embassy Abuja Virtual Zone, Dipo Fisho, ministered.
Total Experience Gwarimpa was glaringly a fulfilment of the scripture that highlighted the magnitude of the people (crowd) that always followed our Lord Jesus Christ throughout his earthly ministry. When we were still basking in the euphoria of the mammoth crowd at our previous crusade in Gwagwalada few weeks earlier, we were dazed by the turnout at the Gwarimpa programme. And to aptly describe the attendance recorded at the Gwarimpa we decided to use the cliche: “And the multitude followed.”
Throughout the programme, there was joy unspeakable and full of glory. The tangibility of the glory of His presence was undeniable and this si the confidence we have that none that participated either at the various arenas or from the various storey buildings around the venue (as we noticed) returned the same way they came.
All over the arena (the main bowl and the overflows) the tangible power of God was manifest that could be felt and touched and no wonder we recorded such mind-blowing miracles of diverse healings, salvation in thousands and answers to individual needs as we have been hearing in the spate of testimonies since that day.
And as usually said by our Man of God, Rev Chris Oyakhilome, no two meetings are ever the same. This was clearly noticeable in the peculiarity of the character of attendees at the Total Experience Gwarimpa. Those who know would agree that Abuja is a very stratified society and to the glory of God, all strata of the Abuja city and its environs were fully captured in the massive attendance recorded at the event. Also worthy of note was that attendees both the brethren and our invitees were so organised and orderly and patiently waited and participated in all the segments of the programme. And this was beautifully remarkable!
It was really the fulfilment of the scripture that said “In the days of His power, the people will be willing,”
When the sister that raised a dead man in the mortuary in Uganda by reading of Rhapsody of Realities (ROR) and the man that was dead but now live, appeared in persons to give their testimonies, the crusade went electric and it was another level entirely even before Pastor Dipo came up to the pulpit to minister.  
The physical presence of Brother Acher (the man that was raised from the dead in the mortuary) and Sister Evelyn whom God used through the reading of Rhapsody of Realities to bring the dead man back to life was motivational and strengthening as many brethren even our invitees became more convinced that “this thing we have tasted and handled and which we preach works even in this our time.”
Who else could have preached Mark 16: 17-18 better than the dead man that was laid hand on and he came back to life (Brother Acher) and the Sister (Sister Evelyn) that laid the hands and read Rhapsody of Realities to bring back the dead man? No wonder both Sister Evelyn and Brother Acher were literally roaring the scripture: “And these signs shall follow them that believe…..”
Then we were introduced in a greater Light to the person of Jesus by Pastor Dipo in his message as we were meant to know beyond head knowledge but by revelation that “Our revelation of who Jesus is would determine how effective our Christianity would be.”
In the same spirit of excellence that characterised the programme, the music ministers were exceptionally good in their renditions and sequencing of their schedule. The high point of the music ministration came when Frank Edward turned the entire programme into a Holy Ghost party and kept the brethren bound in dance of praise until almost 6am.
Indeed, Total Experience Gwarimpa is one programme that is surely going to be talked about for many years to come in the city of Abuja. And to God be all the glory, praise and adoration now and forevermore, Amen!
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment