Share this on WhatsApp

















As candidates emerge from the different political parties to wrestle power, the National Liaison Officer, Buhari Campaign organization (BCO), Prince Isreal Adeshola has said there is no vacancy for the office of the Nigerian President.

Adeshola who is the National Chairman, Bus Conductors’ Association of Nigeria (BCAN) said Nigerians should not be distracted by politicians from supporting President Muhammadu Buhari to perfect the works he has started in moving the nation forward.



He spoke at the inauguration of the Oyo State Liaison Officers and executives of Bus Conductors Association of Nigeria (BCAN) of the BCO.

At the event, bus conductors across the country, under the aegis of the Bus Conductors Association of Nigeria (BCAN) and the Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) expressed their readiness to collaborate and mobilise millions of Nigerians to ensure the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari at the 2019 general elections.

The groups said the impressive performance of Buhari as the Nigerian president has made him the perfect and only choice before Nigerians for 2019 presidential election.

Adeshola said “We are deeply and sincerely committed to the second term campaign of President Buhari because the quality of life of an average Nigerian and indeed our children is secured and adequately protected.

“We are convinced beyond doubts that the only way we could guarantee better future for our children is through good governance and sincere leadership. And the only way to achieve this is for us to collectively ensure that President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, returns in 2019.

“This is not the time to slumber. We must stand to defend our future. Our destiny is in our own hands. We must engage the opposition not with guns or cutlasses but with our collective weaponry which is our PVC. Our PVC is our strength and the weapon we will use to dismantle the opposition and install the leadership we all crave for, the return of President Muhammadu Buhari.



“We all know that to destroy is very easy, but to build is always not easy. It takes patience, sacrifice and honest commitment to rebuild what had been destroyed. And that is exactly what the Buhari administration has been doing since it took over the helm of affairs of this nation.

“There is no doubt that PMB is genuinely committed to ensuring that Nigerians regains her place as truly the giant of Africa both economically and politically. The president is committed to bettering the lots of Nigerians through sustainable economic programmes aimed at improving the socio-economic conditions of Nigerians.”

He noted that the BCAN are not just advocating for the return of President Buhari, but are “advocating selfless, sincere, committed, transparent and purposeful leadership, and we found all these values embedded in President Muhammadu Buhari.”

National Coordinator, Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO), Mr Danladi Pasali, while addressing over one thousand supporters and members of the All Progressive Congress (APC) who attended the inauguration said “I am so impressed that the people of South West, with what I am seeing today are completely Buharists. As we have come today to inaugurate our chapter who will go out and campaign for all the candidates of APC in the southwest.



“It is now clear that people we have seen here today coming from various background, Southwest is 100 percent in support of President Buhari’s re-election as the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.

“The volume of achievements of Mr President speaks for itself and if you say that Buhari should be the sole candidate of APC, clearly show that come 2019, there is no vacancy in Aso Rock. Nigerians are coming out en masse with the assurance we’re having here today to vote President Muhammadu Buhari.”
Pasali, who came in company of other national executive members of BCO, reiterated that for the first time in the history of Nigeria, President Buhari has proved to Nigerians as a leader with integrity, which he said spread across the globe.

The inauguration was attended by the representatives of major traditional rulers in the state, including, Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi and Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adeyemi.

The representative of Oba Adeyemi, Samu of Oyo, High Chief Lamidi Oyewole, who led other Oyo Mesi to the event, enjoined the people to vote for Buhari, saying “the economy of Nigeria will grow better because it would be determined by a president with integrity and who commands the respect of developed nations of this world.”















Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment