Share this on WhatsApp



The Nigerian Army has discovered a shallow grave where the missing Gen. Muhammed Alkali was buried after he was murdered.
The army said the body was later exhumed and reburied somewhere else by the killers.
Sniffers dogs and accounts of four independent witnesses confirmed to the army how the remains of Alkali were exhuned from the grave.
On Friday, Major General B. A. Akinruluyo, the General Officer Commanding, 3 Division, Rukuba Barracks, narrated all this.
Alkali, declared missing September 3, was the immediate past chief of administration of the Nigerian Army
He was traveling from Abuja to Bauchi when he was abducted and later killed been killed by his abductors close to a pond.
The car of the missing general was found weeks ago in the community’s pond after it was drained.
In the car were a bloodied T-shirt, shorts and a pair of shoes believed to belong to the general.
Two other vehicles were also recovered from the pond.
A day after the car was found, the army cordoned off the Dura Du community and arrested 30 suspects in connection with the suspected murder of the general.
Residents of the community fled for fear of military action but the army pledged to conduct the search with respect for human rights.
“Like I always say, the cordon and search operation is intelligence driven and that is why the operation has been conducted in line with international best practices and respect for human rights. This further explains why the (army) division did not clamp down on the entire community. Only the perpetrators are being targeted.
“At this point, let me reiterate that all the actors involved in this dastardly act who are still at large are known to us. All efforts are being made to get them arrested and be brought to justice as their photographs and personal details are with the relevant security agencies,’ the general said.
While the army believes certain people in the community are shielding the perps, it urges well-meaning residents that have information to come out.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment