Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), better known as Shi’ites, on Monday blamed President Muhammadu Buhari for the killing of scores of its members during a protest in Abuja over the continued detention of its leader, Ibrahim el-Zakzaky.
National Daily gathered that members of the sect clashed with security operatives during a protest at Nyanya military checkpoint in Abuja on Monday evening.
Trouble started after security operatives formed a barricade at the city gate that borders the federal capital territory (FCT) and Nasarawa state.
They tried to prevent the protesters from crossing into Mararaba/Nasarawa axis of the FCT but the Shi’ites stood their ground, resulting into a confrontation.
As a combined team of policemen and soldiers opened fire, the IMN members responded by hurling stones and petrol bombs at them. Some policemen retreated into armoured personnel carriers from where they fired directly at the sect members.
Abdullahi Musa, spokesman of the group said the group has recovered the bodies of 16 of its members who were allegedly shot dead by soldiers and unspecified other corpses were taken away by the soldiers.
He accused President Muhammadu Buhari of ordering guards brigade to kill their members, adding that one of the soldiers had earlier confirmed to them that they had order from the above to shoot the protesters.
Hours before the latest attack, Musa, had raised the alarm that soldiers were planning to launch a fresh attack on the group.
Musa said an IMN member overheard a soldier attached to the guard’s brigade at Kubau checkpoint along Karu – Abuja expressway saying order had been given “from above” that the military should engage the Shi’ites in a battle.
“Our attention has been drawn to a statement made by a member of Guards Brigade at (his duty post) Kubau Check point along Karu-Abuja expressway that they are waiting for the followers of Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky (H), because they have an order from above to engage them,” Musa had said in a statement.
He had vowed that the group would not be intimidated to give up its demand for the release of Ibraheem el-Zakzaky, its leader.
Recall that a similar incident in Kaduna state in December 2015 led to the arrest of Ibraheem el-Zakzaky and his wife.
Zakzaky’s followers have been mounting pressure on the government to release him.
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment