Share this on WhatsApp



It was an impressive display from the Super Eagles B team and Rangers International F.C’ shot stopper, Olufemi Thomas, as he was the main reason the five time F.A/Aiteo cup champions earned a deserving draw against Sunshine Stars in the last match of the NFF/Aiteo Federation cup, Group B encounter inside Kano Pillars stadium, Sabon-Gari, Friday.
The ‘Flying Antelopes’ were pushed back for most part of the game by the coach Henry Abiodun wards led by Alimi Sikiru, Ojo Dayo and Asamoah Godbless but the stout defending from Okey Odita, Semiu Liadi, Chidera Ezeh and Isaac Loute did well to contain the onslaughts.
The ‘Owena Waves’ settled the quicker into the game but their dominance counted for nothing as the back line of Rangers gave nothing away and could have shot into the lead on 31 minutes after a fine dribbling run by Ugochukwu Ugwuoke whose delicate weighted pass was missed by Godwin Aguda with a yawning net at his mercy.
The introduction of West Omodu and Sasere Franklin by the opponents caused Rangers more troubles at the back with West finding his onto the edge of the box but his pass missed all legs to sail across the face of goal on 48 minutes.
With the game dragging to the result that will fetch his team the needed ticket, Coach Ogunbote brought out Ajani Ibrahim and Godwin Aguda for more adventurous Bright Silas and Kelvin Itoya and the attacking prowess of the Enugu side came to the fore while goalkeeper Henry Ayodele and his defenders worked their socks off to contain over ten minutes of attacking football.
Every game was difficult here but this particular game pushed us far due largely to some psychological challenges in the team going by our last result. Like I said sometime back, we are taking each game as they come and we start preparation for the quarter-finals and hope to also scale through,” were the words of Rangers gaffer, Coach Olugbenga Ogunbote.
Coach Henry Abiodun said, “It was a very good game from my boys and I still wonder how we played well against the almighty Rangers the way we did and fail to come up with the needed result. I am proud of the players. We had opportunities to score goals but the goalkeeper denied us. That is football for you. We are going back to plan well for next season.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment