Share this on WhatsApp



 
President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians to consolidate on the nation’s great legacy and work together to ensure its progress for the greater good of everyone.
The president made this plea in his national broadcast on the occasion of Nigeria’s 58th Independence anniversary at the Presidential Villa on October 1, 2018.
In his address, the president highlighted the ‘steady improvement’ in the security situation in the North east where military troops battle against terrorist group, Boko Haram.
He promised Nigerians that his government is committed towards preventing the terrorist group from fulfilling its goal to capture territories and destroy democracy.
“There has been a steady improvement in the security situation in the North East. We remain committed to ending the crisis and make the North East safe for all.
“Our thoughts and prayers are always with the victims of the Boko Haram’s atrocities and their families. Beyond that, we know that the goals of the Boko Haram terrorists include capturing territories, destroying our democracy and denying our children the right to education. We will not allow them to succeed.
“As their Commander -In- Chief, I assure these our gallant men and women that I will continue to empower them by deepening their professionalism and providing all the necessary force multipliers and enablers required for them to prevail on the field. I am looking into all reported cases of inadequacies in relation to their entitlements, their welfare and those of their families.”
On the economy, President Muhammadu said Nigeria is steadily diversifying away from reliance on oil to increased manufacturing capacity, solid minerals development, and agriculture.
“Efforts are on course in the Niger Delta to clean up polluted lands, restore hopes of the youths in the region and re-establish livelihoods, and strengthen their capacity to guarantee for themselves and for our country a brighter future.”
He said there is now an enabling environment for local and foreign investment in Nigeria. “We are building a rules-based system – a level playing field that is free from fixers and intermediaries. This is the cornerstone to help genuine investors and honest consumers, and the platform that will allow for the real reforms that we intend to deliver over the coming years.”
“We are gradually strengthening the economy with a stable Naira and falling inflation rate. We are building an economy that is moving away from over reliance on oil. Consequently we have witnessed massive return to farms and seen bumper harvest, despite recurrent floods across the country.”
He also praised his administration for making strides in its anti-corruption war, noting that he has created an enabling environment for local and foreign investment in Nigeria.
“We are making progress in the fight against corruption and recovery of stolen public funds and assets despite vicious and stiff resistance. The shameful past practice, of the brazen theft of billions of Naira is no more. Shady oil deals and public contracts that were never delivered have become things of the past.”
While speaking about the herders-farmers crisis that has claimed the lives of hundreds of victims this year alone, President Buhari reiterated his earlier position that the crisis is being exploited by self-serving individuals and pledged his administration’s resolve towards finding a lasting solution.
He praised Nigerian youths and highlighted their important role in nation-building, and promised to continue to work tirelessly to promote, protect and preserve a united, peaceful, prosperous and secure Nigeria.
 
 
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment