Share this on WhatsApp



The Federal Government in Abuja said it would ensure local technology was upgraded through policy to meet set standard.
Mr Abayomi Oguntunde, Director of Bio-resource, Federal Ministry of Science and Technology (FMST), announced this during an interview monitored by National Daily.
According to him, such effort will make Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDA) and other stakeholders to adopt local technology to replace foreign ones.
The director said implementation of the Presidential Executive Order No. 5 was actually meant for the nation to achieve the feat.
The Executive Order requires manufacturers to meet set standards of relevant regulatory bodies and agencies before presenting the goods for procurement under the national competitive bidding.
It provides for any other types of Public Procurement Process.
“Solicitation documents shall obligate bidders or potential manufacturers, suppliers, contractors and consultants to provide a veritable statement on the local content of goods or services to be provided.
“Nigerian companies duly registered in accordance with the laws of Nigeria, with current practising licence, shall lead in consultancy service involving Joint Venture relationship agreements, relating to law, engineering, among others.”
He further said the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation and MDAs would ensure that foreign professional certificates were domesticated with the relevant statutory professional bodies before being considered for any contract award and employment in Nigeria.
Oguntunde commended the FMST Minister, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, for his effort in using Science, Technology and Innovation (STI) to drive national economy.
“The ministry recognises STI as key in everyday life to achieve the nation’s development goals across all sectors of economy.
“The STI plays a vital role in National Economic Development, particularly in the area of promoting made-in-Nigeria goods and services, ” he added.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment