Share this on WhatsApp

invasion, issues 21 days ultimatum




The Coalition of Civil Society Organizations in Lagos State who petition Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, over the unlawful invasion of Ori-Alala Temidire in Makoko Area of Yaba Lagos and burning of The Act of The Apostle Church, by some police officers, indicting the Lagos State Commissioner of Police Edgar Imohinmi of shielding them, have issued 21 days ultimatum after which it will institute legal action to
get justice for the families of the slain residents of the area.
The group urges Governor Ambode to act fast and ensure the culprit, alleged leader of the killer team Mr. Jide Bakare is brought to book, as no punitive action was taken to instill deterrence others aside redeployment of affected officers.
“On Thursday 10th of may 2018 the Lagos state taskforce on land grabber committee led by the Chairman Mr. Jide Bakare invaded the ori-oke community with contingent of fully armed policemen from D9 section of the SCIID PANTI, MAKOKO POLICE STATION, ANTI-KIDNAPPING UNIT all led by their OCs and DPOs.
“The illegal, unlawful, and unconstitutional invasion resulted to the death of Mr. Seyi Akintimehin and Mr. Kolawole Iwalokun others sustained gun injury and the police set the community church ablaze and destroyed shops and looted properties worth millions of naira.
They however, lament the pathetic situation that pervades the affected community ever since, “ the incident on 10th may 2018 till date today making it 153 days the corpses of the two innocent men Mr. Seyi Akintimehin and that of Mr. Kolawole Iwalokun that were shot dead by the trigger happy officer Mr. Seun Awolu (ijaya) and others officers are still in the mortuary yet to be buried and other victims that sustained gunshot injuries from the attack and unlawful invasion are
also still undergoing treatment .
“Leaving the financial burden to the victims respective family but the trigger happy officers Mr.Jide Bakare, CSP Edobor, Aidonogie, SP Oloruntoba Seun Awolu (ijaya) and others are moving around freely boasting that nothing will happen and truly till date nothing has happened.
“In the foregoing, the Coalition of Civil Society Organizations in Lagos state is using this medium in demanding that you should use your good office and person as the Executive Governor and the number one security officer of this state to as a matter of urgency wade into this matter because the person that led the killer team Mr. Jide Bakare is serving your Government as we all know that the Lagos state task
force on land grabber committee is your establishment under the Lagos state ministry of Justice.
“We demand that since the CP has compromise, you set up an independent panel of enquiry to look into this matter holistically and submit their report/findings so that those found wanting be brought to justice in other to serve as a deterrent to others so that the corpses of the victims can be release to their relatives for burial.
The group also threatened to take up the gauntlet legally in defense of the hapless members of the community after the expiration of 21 days ultimatum.
“If by after 21 days from the date of the receipt of this petition we did not receive or observe any positive development on the matter the coalition of Civil Society Organizations in Lagos State shall not hesitate to on behalf of the victims family take further necessary lawful action”. CCSO said.
The CCSO petition was signed by Comrade Alex Omotehinse,Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR) Lagos branch, Comrade Adeola Samuel ilori esq.
Human and consumer right advocacy, Comrade Shina Loremikan Human Rights Development Advancement Centre (HURIDAC) and Comrade Funmi Jolade Ajayi Community Women Initiative (CWI)76.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment