Share this on WhatsApp



FCT Football Association board members led by the chapter chairman, Alhaji Musa Talle in a meeting on Monday October 1st, 2018 poured encomiums on FCT Sports Department for giving the Association an enabling environment for it’s operation.
Adding that, Chief Mrs Dilichukwu  Onyendinma led Sports Department is worthy of praises for the unprecedented  maintanace and provision of  training facilities for all sports in Abuja.
The board also Congratulates Amaju Pinnick led NFF board on the successful and peaceful elections in Katsina state.
The near-perfect but excellent performances of the 2018 FCT Federation cup champions,  Supreme Court FC, did not go unnoticed as the Association likens them to D’Tigress performance at the just concluded 2018 FIBA Women World cup  in Tenerife, Spain.
Supreme Court against all odds emerged 2018 Aiteo cup champions despite the presence of big teams, the did not stop there, they went on to defeat 3sc of Ibadan in round 64, beat NPFL team, Go Round in round of 32 both on penalties.
Supreme Court were undefeated in their first two games against another two NPFL giants, Sunshine stars and Rangers international in the round of 16 group matches in Kano centre before a dying minute goal by El-Kanemi condenmed them to the first lost of the competition.
The FCT FA board unanimously agreed the shifting of the 2018 Principal’s Cup to January 2019 due to hosting of 2018 National Sports Festival  in FCT. The body also approved October 10th 2018 as the date for the commencement of the 2018/19 FCT leagues.
FCT FA on Monday called on all the six Football Area councils chairmen and secretaries for a meeting on 13th October, 2018 on preparation for the oncoming elections into all councils.
The board led by the chairman, Alh. Musa Talle, Vice-chairman, Mr Patrick Ngwaogu, Acting Secretary General, Haruna Usman Ilerika, Godwin Bamgboye, Hasimu Adamu, Zakari Musa,  to mention but few.
The Association recognised the good performances of the FCT referees  as well as the Mr Godwin Bamigboye led Nigeria Coaches Association, FCT Chapter for their development and orgainisation of grassroots competitions.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment