Share this on WhatsApp



Buoyed by the growing anxiety and disaffection within the Nigeria sporting media, regarding the exact role of Tunde Adelakun in the present Super Eagles technical settup, a top official of the Nigeria football federation has offered vital explanations to douse growing anxieties.
Speaking on condition of anonymity, the official who is  fully abreast of all the details in Gernot Rohr’s first and second contracts, explained that the football house has taken time to iron out Adelakun’s issue with Rohr who has accepted to personally pay him from his monthly salary.
What that means therefore, is that Tunde Adelakun, like coach Rohr, are on contracts with the NFF, that will run from 2018 to 2020.
It will be recalled that coach Gernot Rohr only recently signed a deal that extends to  2020, meaning, he has accepted that his friend and very close confidant be included as part of his back room staff during this period, the official said.
“He is part of Rohr’s technical team and duly listed on Rohr’s contract and he is paid by Rohr.
He is a full-time Assistant coach appointed by the Head Coach, Gernot Rohr, and designated to also be the Manager in charge of Scouting, Team Welfare and External Liaision”
This quotes are well documented excerpts from the NFF official who has distinguished himself as one  man, that believes in things being done properly.
Super Eagles chief coach, Gernot Rohr allegedly asked his latest employee, Adelakun to join the exalted table of officials and players during a media parley ahead of Nigeria’s all important Nations cup qualifier with Libya on Saturday, in Uyo.
In the question and answer session, Adelakun also had the rare privilege of answering questions thrown at him by journalists,  a situation viewed by many as unacceptable, since the FA was yet to officially clarify his position in the team.
“He has been officially delegated and now has a role and it’s Rohr that pays his salary not the NFF the official added.
The names of all Rohr’s assistants are clearly written in his new contract with their roles clearly spelt out he concluded”.
Below is an updated list of Gernot Rohr’s backroom room staff with Tunde Adelakun’s role now properly assigned,National Daily learnt.
The official list of Gernot Rohr’s backroom staff with Tunde Adelakun’s role properly spelt out is now written out for record purposes
Name                        Position
Gernot Rohr                Technical Adviser
Salisu Yusuf                 Head Coach
Jean Luc Royer             Technical Assistant
Everson Ferreira           Technical Assistant II
Nabil Trabelsi                Video Analyst
Imama Amapakabo       Assistant Coach
Tunde Adelakun        Chief Scouting, welfare/Liason officer
Alloysius Agu               Goalkeeper Trainer
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment