Share this on WhatsApp



 

As Polaris faces survival test

By Odunewu Segun
That Skye Bank, a bank that once bought a bridge bank is itself in need of a bridge bank to turn around its fortunes, is no longer news, what is however news, is the role played by top echelon of the bank in bringing it down to its knees.
Recall that the Central Bank of Nigeria had in July 2016, sacked the board and took control of the management when it became apparent that the bank was irredeemable.
National Daily gathered that four individuals, including the sacked Chairman of the bank, Tunde Ayeni accounted for over N446 billions of insider related loans that was part of the reason the bank went under.
Ayeni was said to have secured N89.4bn loan to acquire the Ibadan Disco, Yola Disco and Nitel, another N29.5bn discovered in suspense account and was directly linked to him.  He also said to have diverted $6.8bn into his law firm.
Another individual, Festus Fadeyi, who is the father of Dr. Jason Fadeyi, a non-executive director also pocketed $616m in loan to Pan Oceanic Group.
Jide Omokere owes N110bn purportedly given to AEDC, Cedar Oil/Gas and Real Banc Ltd respectively.
There is also the alleged conversion of 46.4million shares in Forte Oil Plc worth N11.6 billion, paid for by Afribank.
Needless to say that the bank will be in a much better position if it didn’t have to deal with these NPL, but the CBN also in part, contributed to the demise of the bank.
The role it played during the bank’s acquisition of MainStreet Bank in 2014, experts argued was akin to setting up the bank to fail.
At the time of bidding, the net asset of MBL was N69 Billion (N67B at FYE). Skye bank however, bid N126 Billion for it. This shows that the purchase consideration paid by Skye Bank was well above the net asset of MBL by about N59 billion.
This raised a lot of eyebrows because at the time, market capitalization for SkyeBank was N40B while Tier 1 + Tier 2 Capital was not sufficient to support d bid. Going by its financials as at Dec 2013, it only had a max headroom of N26bn of Tier 1 Capital to fund acquisition.
Skye Bank borrowed money from 4 banks, used the money to pays AMCON for the N100 Billion balance for the MBL acquisition, AMCON then redeems MBL AMCON Bonds and Skye bank takes the cash to pay the four banks. Put in another way, MBL was acquired by using its own money.
This ambitious purchase, coupled with the gross mismanagement by the Tunde Ayeni-led board puts a final nail on the Skye Bank’s coffin.
From available evidence, it’s clear that the case of Skye Bank is not that of Corporate Governance Failure of the Bank, but rather a case of Governance failure of the regulator.
Clearly when it acquired MainStreet Bank at an overpriced rate, it didn’t meet regulatory standards to qualify as d preferred bidder. And yet, the CBN gave it its assent.
Industry analysts believe the failure of Skye Bank was caused by its acquisition of Mainstreet Bank, a hollow financial institution which was almost three times the size of Skye Bank.
Whereas the banks have all been restructured and sold to core investors, the acquirers do not seem to have benefitted much from the transactions, rather they have been battling for their lives ever since, analysts believe.
Lagos based financial analyst and a senior lecturer at the prestigious Lagos Business School (LBS), Dr. Adi Bongo, expressed discomfort with the emergence of Polaris Bank, adding that Skye Bank should never have been allowed to acquire Mainstreet Bank which was much bigger than her at that time.
Another disheartening aspect of the process Skye Bank was dismantled which has continued to raise eyebrows is the bridge bank- Polaris. Investigation shows that at the time of announcement of Polaris Bank as the Bridge Bank, it was not incorporated in Nigeria.
Against the backdrop of growing customer anxiety, Polaris Bank, the legacy institution set up to take over the assets and liabilities of now defunct Skye Bank in a move to avert a run on its deposits, recently took out pages of advertisements in major national dailies to assure bank customers that their savings and other sundry deposits were safe.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment