Share this on WhatsApp



By John Staughton
Drinking cucumber water is a surefire way to improve your health because it delivers a number of surprising benefits and it is very easy to prepare.
What is Cucumber Water?
Quite simply, cucumber water is water that is infused with cucumber slices. It is made by immersing and soaking cucumber slices in a pitcher of water. While this may sound overly simple, many of the active ingredients of cucumber infuse into the water, boosting its overall nutrient intake. Moreover, cucumbers are about 95% water. This is why cucumber water is so popular in detox cleanses.
Cucumber water is good for you because it possesses the earthy, refreshing flavor of cucumbers, as well as many other nutrients and active ingredients. Drinking cucumber water increases your vitamin B and vitamin C levels. It is rich in beta-carotene, manganese, and molybdenum. Most importantly, cucumbers contain anti-inflammatory flavonols such as ‘fisetin’, and various other antioxidants, including cucurbitacin.
According to the USDA National Nutrient Database, cucumbers also contain folic acid and silica, which have a number of positive effects on the body. Most importantly, however, this is a delicious and unique twist on an average glass of water that will keep you coming back for more.
Benefits of Cucumber Water
The powerful benefits of cucumber water include skin care, weight loss, chronic disease, cardiovascular health, and bone density, among others.
Hydration
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, water intake can be done through a variety of beverages and foods. Hydration is very important and drinking cucumber water not only hydrates your body it also helps prevent constipation and kidney stones.
So if you find it difficult to keep drinking water, infusing it with nutritious cucumbers can help you increase your nutrient intake while keeping you well hydrated.
Weight Loss
Cucumber water is low in calories and is extremely good at filling you up. This not only prevents overeating but also aids in quick weight loss.
Water is naturally good at this because thirst is often mistaken for hunger. A 12-week research study led  by Elizabeth A. Dennis, Department of Human Nutrition, Foods and Exercise, Virginia Tech et al. suggests that middle-aged adults who consumed 500 ml of water prior to three main daily meals as part of a hypocaloric diet shed more than 2 kgs of weight as compared to adults who were on a hypocaloric diet alone. The men and women who were part of this study had a BMI range of 25-40 and were between the ages of 55-75 years.
This is why when you make this cucumber water infusion a larger part of your diet, it can help prevent overeating and unnecessary snacking between meals that can derail any diet.
Skin Care
There are a number of antioxidants and vitamins found in cucumbers that can help with skin health and acne. According to a 2010 study published in the Journal of Young Pharmacists, an aqueous extract of cucumber was found to contain flavonoids and tannins that able to neutralize free radicals. This helps cut down on oxidative stress, the force that can lead to wrinkles, age spots, blemishes, and loose skin as you age. Cucumber water is not only a well-known natural remedy for treating acne breakouts but it also has a cooling effect on your skin.
Detoxifying
Drinking cucumber water helps flush out the toxins from the body and increases urination. This means the toxins in your body get eliminated faster, reducing the strain on your metabolic system.
Muscle Strength
One of the unique components of cucumber water is silica. This is a mineral that is rarely discussed in relation to human health. However, it is a vital part of connective tissue in the body. Silica can, therefore, help boost muscle growth and tone.
Lowers Blood Pressure
Drinking cucumber water is an excellent way to increase your potassium levels, which is a vital electrolyte for overall health. Potassium also acts as a vasodilator to reduce blood pressure and lower strain on the cardiovascular system.
Improves Heart Health
Cucumber water rich in potassium helps lower your risk of atherosclerosis, heart attacks, strokes, and coronary heart disease.
Bone Density
Although there aren’t many minerals in cucumber water, it does contain silica and manganese, among other trace elements. According to research by Dr. Ravin Jugdaosingh, University Of Cambridge, foods such as cucumber rich in silicon can help to strengthen the bones and lower your risk of osteoporosis as you age.
Prostate Cancer
Cucumbers contain a unique compound called cucurbitacin, which acts as a powerful antioxidant in the body. This is according to a study published in the Current Pharmaceutical Design journal. Another study, published in a report by the American Association for Cancer Research, showed that fisetin, an anti-inflammatory compound, found in cucumbers and strawberries can help slow the progression of prostate cancer.
So go ahead and make this simple detox drink. For cucumber water, clean & slice a cucumber. Fill a glass with cold water & add cucumbers. Let them marinate in water for a few minutes or even overnight. Enjoy!

Culled from www.organicfacts.net

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment