APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole
        Share this on WhatsApp



 
With the National Assembly set to reconvene by October 9 if not shifted again by its leadership, an All progressives Congress (APC) member of the House of Representatives, Peter Akpatason has said members will do the needful to effect changes in the House leadership when it reconvenes.
Recall that the National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomole has consistently called for the resignation of Senate President Bukola Saraki following his defection to the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP).
He said the Senate under Saraki is deliberately frustrating the capacity of the government to address critical infrastructural deficit without which the ordinary man cannot feel the impact of government.
Akpatason who representing Akoko-Edo, insisted that legal route will be taken in their action, stressing that the Speaker cannot come from the minority party in House.
He said that when the house reconvened, “the needful” would be done regarding the leadership of both chambers of the National Assembly. The lawmaker however emphasised that whatever that would be done to address the issue, would be according the law of land.
According to the former NUPENG President, it is an aberration for a member of another political party to continue to be speaker of the house of the representatives.
“We, as party loyalists, will carry out any instruction we get from the party. We will study the situation when we get back. Whatever the situation is will be what we will react to. “We cannot be happy to have a speaker that belongs to another party. It is an aberration and has to be treated as such,” he said.
Speaking on the ongoing APC primaries, Akpatason, who is seeking a return ticket to the House of Representatives, said his constituent were in support of his third term bid.
The lawmaker also warned the APC leadership against manipulation of the party’s primaries, noting that direct primaries was not prone to manipulation like the indirect primaries in which delegates could be bribed.
“In a situation where you sit down and select people based on sentiments and not on individual popularity and ability to win elections, people will have other options,” he added
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment