Share this on WhatsApp



 
Senator Shehu Sani, representing Kaduna Central, says he will not participate in the senatorial primary election of the ruling All Progressives Congress for Kaduna central, which he had represented since 2015.
Sani disclosed this on Saturday in statement issued by his media aide, Abdulsamad Amad.
He said this was because the national leadership of the APC has not scheduled any senatorial primaries in Kaduna central for Saturday.
“The senator and his team are law abiding citizens and loyal party members who will always obey the directives of the National leadership of our great party,” he said.
Meanwhile, more than 3, 200 delegates are taking part in the senatorial primaries taking place at the Umaru Musa Yaradua Multipurpose Sports Hall, Kaduna.
Four aspirants are in the race for the party’s ticket to represent the Kaduna central senatorial zone. They are: Malam Uba Sani, Special Adviser on Political and Intergovernmental Affairs to Governor Nasiru El-Rufai; Sani Saleh who lost the seat to Shehu Sani in 2015 general elections; Usman Ibrahim, a businessman, and Shamsideen Shehu Giwa.
Prof Edie Floyd-Igbo, the APC’s coordinator for the national and state Assembly primaries in Kaduna central senatorial zone said that 37 delegates selected from each ward across the seven local government areas that make up the district were voting in the exercise. Floyd-Igbo said there were also five or three statutory delegates from each of the wards in the seven local government areas that make up the central senatorial district.
National Daily gathered that delegates drawn from Giwa, Kajuru, Chikun, Kaduna North, Kaduna South, Birnin Gwari and Igabi local government areas that make up the zone are partaking in the exercise.
Recall that some supporters of the aspirants had earlier staged a protest when the APC announced Shehu as the only contestant cleared by the party’s NWC to run for the Senate seat in the 2019 polls.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment