Share this on WhatsApp



 
The travel ban placed on some prominent Nigerians by President Muhammadu Buhari with the newly introduced executive order 6 may be an ingenious way to crackdown on top opposition leaders in the country ahead of the 2019 polls, National Daily has learnt.
Recall that Presiden Buhari has mandated the Attorney-General of the Federation and the Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, to implement the Executive Order 6 in full force with immediate effect.
The directive was made following the instant judicial affirmation of the constitutionality and legality of the Executive Order 6 (EO6) by a Federal High Court in Abuja.
According to Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, no fewer than 50 high profile persons directly affected by EO6 on watch-list are now restricted leaving the county pending the determination of their cases.
Findings by National Daily shows that mostly affected by this new executive order are top stalwarts of the opposition Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). They include 13 former governors, a former acting governor and seven ex-ministers who served under the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan.
They include Gbenga Daniel, former governor of Ogun state and director-general of the presidential campaign of ex-Vice President Atiku Abubakar, as well as Orji Uzor Kalu, former governor of Abia state.
Former governors affected are Saminu Turaki (Jigawa), Murtala Nyako (Adamawa), Adebayo Alao-Akala (Oyo), Gabriel Suswam (Benue), Rasheed Ladoja (Oyo), Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia) and Danjuma Goje (Gombe).
Other former governors banned from travelling are Attahiru Bafarawa (Sokoto), Muazu Babangida Aliyu (Niger); Chimaroke Nnamani (Enugu); Sule Lamido (Jigawa); Gbenga Daniel (Ogun); Ibrahim Shehu Shema (Katsina) and Ahmadu Fintiri, former acting governor of Adamawa.
The ex-ministers are Bashir Yuguda and Nenadi Usman, former ministers of finance; Jumoke Akinjide and Bala Mohammed, former ministers of the federal capital territory; Abba Moro, former minister of interior; and Femi Fani-Kayode, former minister of aviation.
Former service chiefs affected include Alex Badeh (defence staff), AD Jibrin (naval staff), Mohammed Dikko and Adesola Amosu (air staff) as well as Sunday Ehindero (police).
Also affected are Raymond Dokpesi, chairman emeritus of AIT/Raypower; Waripamowei Dudafa, a former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan; Rita Ofili-Ajumogobia, a former judge of the federal high court; and Olisah Metuh, former PDP spokesman.
Others are Jide Omokore, a businessman, Ricky Tarfa and Dele Belgore, senior advocates of Nigeria.
Meanwhile, Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), has condemned the executive order, describing it as clampdown on citizens’ fundamental rights.
In a statement issued on his behalf by his campaign organisation, Abubakar said the ban is a throwback to the notorious “evil decree two” of 1984 enacted by the military government under Buhari.
“We must be unequivocal in saying that we abhor any act of criminality, financially or otherwise, but the rule of law must be our guide at all times or society will descend to anarchy,” the statement read.
The Atiku campaign organisation asked the Buhari administration to go to court “if it wants to curtail the rights of Nigerians” as “anything short of this is unconstitutional and extrajudicial”.
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment