Share this on WhatsApp



 
By Lanre Adesanya
The Lagos State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa has task his colleagues, who were successfully sealed for a return as the All Progressives Congress candidate through the just concluded direct primaries,to consider their victory as a call to service and not a meal ticket.
Obasa made the statement at today’s plenary,in a review of the recently held APC primary in Lagos State.
Commending the party and national leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for the success of the process.
“This is not the time to jubilate because it is not yet uhuru for us since we are going to face general election.
“This is no time to celebrate but rather you should go back and engage your constituents. Your return tickets is not for meal but call for service”, he said.
Some of the lawmakers who contributed to the aftermath of APC primary hailed Asiwaju Tinubu for adopting direct primary and Obasa for the structure laid that result to their success.
The lawmakers also called for review of the report of past stakeholders meeting held simultaneously in all the 40 constituencies, already submitted to the executive to ascertain the extent of delivery of dividend of democracy to their constituents.
It was unanimously agreed that the past reports submitted to the executive must be reviewed,while the report for last stakeholders meeting should be sent to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for its incorporation in the 2019 budget.
Hon. Lanre Oshun, Bisi Yusuf, Desmond Elliot, Sanai Agunbiade among others appreciated the Speaker, while called on the executive to complete all the road projects in their constituencies.
Hon. Rasheed Makinde representing Ifako-Ijaiye constituency 2 appealed to the executive to complete all the abandoned projects in his local government.
The House at the end of its plenary passed a bill for a law to amend the Lagos State Health Scheme law 2018 and for connected purposes into law and sent to the Governor for his assent.
The House there after adjourns sitting to Tuesday 16th of October, 2018.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment