Share this on WhatsApp



 
Ediale Kingsley (national daily ) brings you this awesome story. A story of a black man accepting to be both father and mother to a son born prematurely. At birth the baby looked so lifeless that the mum ran away. Read this insipring piece and share this story. This is what should go viral not naked girls.
Tell us what happened during birth?
When my wife gave birth, I was at work.
The doctor who was following my wife during her pregnancy called me to tell me to come to the hospital urgently. When I arrived, I saw the child, it was as if I had been hit with a log of wood on the neck, I had a headache.
What happened from that moment?
I sat down and the doctor told me that my wife had left, when she saw the child she did not support so she left despite her condition, she said that it is not her child and she left in tears, in a word she left the child in the hospital. The doctor asked me what I wanted for the child, my answer did not take 1 second, in less than a second without hesitation I replied that I will take care of the child.
So was there funds to venture into all the care this baby was going to require?
I had a small supermarket. I sold the whole supermarket to stay with the child to take care of him day and night. All my savings, and the check from the supermarket I invested in caring for the premature baby.
I gave him my heart, I gave him my patience, my love and my savings.
I took care of him myself without the help of anyone except the doctor.
Without hiring a nanny to keep him.
So how much time did you put into ensuro could survive that first period of his life as a premarture born?
I devoted 1 year of my life without working without moving away from him, we lived on my savings until today my little premature became a beautiful little boy. He became cute and he grew up well, well fattened.
And this mum?
It was this point she wanted in. This is where his mother wants to come back to take care of her son, of her abandoned child. She came to ask for forgiveness on her knees. She only cries when she sees how the child has changed.
I understood her and I forgave her mistake even if she acted badly I want a mother for my son.
So you lost your shop. How did you feed afterwards, after the savings were gone?
We had no more money to eat when I applied on the internet at 00h, at 8 am I was called for an indefinite contract in a factory.God knows how to do things.
One advice to people out there?
Never give up a child for anything in the world.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment