Share this on WhatsApp



Sunshine Stars FC communicates that Mr Kabiru Suleiman Dogo has signed a one year deal with a renewal clause to be the new coach of the Club.
Dogo who was also unveiled at the Ondo State Football Agency’s Board/Conference Room on Tuesday will be assisted by coach Kayode Julius.
During the ceremony Club President, Otunba Tajudeen Akinyemi stated that Dogo has the right attributes to lead Sunshine Stars FC to glory, and again rebuffed Club disbandment rumours.
“Let me say again, there is no disbandment here but reorganisation for better result. At this time it is important we get a coach with the right qualities to lead our team to success.
“Dogo is a great coach and a complete gentleman with high level of integrity and we like the fact he works with young players. We have total confidence in what he can do for us. Yes, we want to return to playing in the continent with him, but no pressure on the coach.” Akinyemi noted.
“Fate and Love Brought Me To Sunshine Stars”
On his part, Dodo posited that his coming to Akure to work at this time is down to fate and the overwhelming love of the people of Ondo State.
“Sunshine Stars is a big Club in Nigeria, but some many other big teams wanted me, so it is fate and God’s will that I will be here today to work with Sunshine Stars. The love towards me from the people during the negotiations was overwhelming and the Chairman made me believe in this project.
“My objective now is to work and make this union a successful one. I appreciate the effort of last season’s coaches, Duke Udi and Henry Abiodun I will be building on their works. Sunshine is a good side we just need to work together and with that we can be successful.
“I beleive so much in unity (management, players and fans), and also the wellbeing of my players. The chairman has already assured me that the welfare of the players will be taken of and that means half of my work is done already.”_ Dogo submitted.
Sunshine Stars’ captain Sunday Abe assured the coach of total support from the the players while Club’s Supporters Group Chairman, Mr Oduyi, pledged the total support and cooperation of the fans in the new season and beyond.
New Sunshine Stars’ Crew
The Club President also announced the reorganised Sunshine Stars’ crew at the ceremony, with former player, Seun Betiku elevated from the Feeders (Rising Stars FC) to the senior team as Team Manager, while Abiodun Akadiri is appointed the Technical Director.
Added to the new teachnical crew is Folarin Kamil while Coach Busuyi Olu and Kayode Emmanuel are retained as Goalkeeper and Physical Trainer. Tokunbo Akinyelure is redeployed as Protocol Officer and Ramon Abdulsalam Welfare Officer.
Olumide Adetula is retained as Physiotherapists, Rotimi Gafaru is redeployed from Rising Stars as Masseur. Abdul Wahab remained the Kits/Equipments Manager and Bosun Alade stays on as Cameraman, Ayodeji Abe is drafted in as Camp Commandant while Taye Dosumu is retained as one of the ball boys/launder.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment