Share this on WhatsApp




Jose Mourinho faces the press today as the build up continues to Sunday’s Premier League clash with in-form Everton, and may be asked about the futures of Martial and Sanchez.

On Sanchez 
In this moment he’s struggling because he’s injured and we come to the Chelsea match to try to help the team but his physical condition was not good and then he had to stop and was not available for Juventus and is not available for tomorrow again, so now is to be physically in the best conditions. Arrived January, in first period of the season for him the last, I don’t think is ever an easy situation for a player but this season he had a good start a good pre season he start well against Leicester, and then he was injured, then he came back and was injured again and he is the kind of player that needs to be really really sharp.

Lingard injury update 
Yes, he came from the World Cup with that problem, he thought wrongly that the holiday period would bring things to normality, then he thought wrongly that keep working or start working would improve and then he felt in an impossible situation to play football.
So now he’s going back and to do the work to try and be 100% and in this moment he’s almost there because of the team’s needs, can he help us in the next match, that is the questions we have to answer tomorrow or if we wait one more week of stability for the work so he’s almost there.

Former Real Madrid president backs Mourinho return 
Real Madrid’s former club president Ramon Calderon is convinced Jose Mourinho will one day return to the club.
“Mourinho will come for sure, but I do not know when,” he told Onda Cero.
“I bet that in a year, a year and a half, he will be the coach of Real Madrid if he is no longer in Manchester.
“He is the only coach to have fascinated the president, who feels a kind of admiration. He has ruined everything during his stay and I think he will come back.”Record vs Everton
Jose Mourinho has also been asked by MUTV about United’s phenomenal record vs Everton.
“I didn’t even know. I am not very good on these numbers, on these stats. Sometimes people tell me. So, I don’t know it doesn’t play any part.”

Mourinho on Everton test 
Jose Mourinho has told MUTV about the prospect of facing an ‘ambitious’ Everton.
“Difficult, incredible investment. We knew the club would move in that direction, very good players, players from Barcelona. So that is the level which Everton wants to reach. Their ambitions are very similar to our ambitions.”

Stick with Lukaku? 
Well against Juventus to give him a break, I don’t think Carrick can play as a striker, so against Juventus or we play with the players that we did or we decide to give a rest to Lukaku, then Rashford, who plays as a winger?
We are not in the best situation to try to think about resting players or try to find solutions, the solutions is to play the players we have.

Mourinho on Silva
“Good friends. You know Marco now, I understand the questions when he was coming from Olympiakos I think but now I don’t understand the questions, he is the third club in the country third season int he PL you all know Marco, the only think I want to say is yes we are good friends, in football it is difficult to feed that relationship between managers because our life is not an easy one and we can’t have conversations every day but he’s a good boy and I know I feel he has the same kind of feelings towards me.”










Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment