Share this on WhatsApp

see the full details and be the judge




By Ediale KingsleyAs a football writer for National Daily, I (Ediale Kingsley) have three group of readers:
— Those who are fans of Lionel Messi,
— Those who are Cristiano Ronaldo’s apologists, and
— Those who are neutrals
So for category 2 sakes, because I love them too, I will attempt to bring humour to this.
Knowing I can’t please everybody, knowing RAPE is a sensitive matter that shouldn’t be a laughing subject — I will tone down the joke.
We heard the news a long time ago back in 2017 and most of us wondered in a typical way, “does Ronaldo need to rape anyone?”
I think the matter is here again to prove everyone with such mentality wrong. It’s karma getting back at our lazy sense of reasoning. And this time I fear karma will get more than just justice.
Few dry jokes before we go deeper into the conversation (remember, these jokes are here otherwise my category 2 readers will end the read prematurely, they worship Ronaldo):
— Ronaldo perhaps took all the English sayings he stumbled upon to the letter. He is now wondering, “I thought they said, what happens in Las Vegas, stays in Las Vegas”.
— C Raped 7… this is how I would have crafted my headline if I was that first German journalist that broke the story in 2017. Why C Raped 7? Because the accused is Cristiano, he is alleged to have raped a young lady, even when she screamed No, No, No…religiously. And we know 7 is a religious number (I was still asked to shout Halleluyah 7 times this past Sunday in my local Church).
Okay, that’s enough joke.
Kathryn Mayorga is the name of the woman who says she was raped by Cristiano Ronaldo — the football genius whom I once had an ode of several paragraphs on:
“If I was asked to assemble body parts of different soccer star to make my ideal player. I will have:
— Xavi’s microscopic eyes,
— Zlatan’s built-for-fitness body,
— Messi’s sniper left foot,
— Cruyff’s Pythagorean brains,
— Vieri’s powerful chest,
— Koeman’s muscular upper legs,
— Beckham’s controlling right foot,
And…
— Ronaldo’s neck”
I once wrote that about CR7.
But why I praised Ronaldo’s neck. I didn’t know that wasn’t the only extraordinary body parts of his. Or how was I to know that Ronaldo possessed a raping tool for an organ?
One he so used on Kathryn that she would require $375,000 to heal her injuries.
She was offered that amount as she was guided to sign a nondisclosure agreement (in exchange for her silence) in 2009.
Yes, the rape is alleged to have happened in 2009, inside a Ronaldo Suites, after clubbing in a nightclub called RAIN in Las Vegas.
Now, personally, there are things Kathryn said that made me feel she wasn’t telling lies. I need you guys to check her narration out. Trust me guys you will agree, just read:
She said,
— Ronaldo saw her and her friends in a typical high profile Las Vegas Casino,
— Ronaldo invited her and her friends to come party with him privately,
— then the sharp guy, when babe and friends were all in the ZONE asked her to join him in the Jacuzzi,
— then after some time in the wet space, he offered her a dry T-SHIRT (brethren are you with me?)
— So as she moved into the OTHER room to put on the EASY BUT DRY WEAR, CR7 showed up nude, swinging his organ towards her direction,
— It was here, at this point, she started shouting the seven NOs and STOP intermittently to no avail,
— C lifted her up to the bed and took her vagina for a goal post,
— Afterwards, he apologised saying, ‘I am usually gentle’.
There.
Now many guys can relate to this scenario.
I fear the many women Ronaldo has kept silent could all come out after this.
Those surrogate mothers of his kids, former jilted girlfriends — One once had to consult a spiritual voodoo priest against him — and the mother of Cristiano Junior.
Paris Hilton once reported to have hired a voodoo priest to cast an injury spell against CR7.
Ronaldo has kept the identity of his first son’s mother from his son, family and public.
Here are some of his ex-girlfriends: Jordana Jardel, Merche Romero, Gemma Atkinson, Nereida Gallardo, Luana Belletti, Irina Shayk, Lucia Villalon, Soraia Chaves, Karina Ferro, Imogen Thomas, Bipasha Basu, Paris Hilton, and Kim Kardashian.
Yeah, ‘Kim was there’!
Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment