Share this on WhatsApp



The Wales international continues to run down his current deal and could be available for nothing next summer if no fresh terms are put in place
Arsenal have been warned that losing Aaron Ramsey on a free transfer would be “a mistake”, with Sol Campbell admitting another contract saga at Emirates Stadium is “worrying”.
The Gunners have picked up an unfortunate habit of allowing star men to enter the final 12 months of their respective deals, with Mesut Ozil, Alexis Sanchez and Jack Wilshere doing likewise last season.
Wales international Ramsey is among those who find themselves in a similar situation this term, with no extension having been agreed despite regular rounds of talks.
It is now being suggested that the 27-year-old will walk away from north London next summer, with Campbell disappointed to see another “top player” potentially heading towards the exits.
The former Gunners defender told Standard Sport: “It is worrying. Rambo’s a fantastic player, a great guy. It’s a shame but it’s a recurring situation at Arsenal.
“Ozil took a long time, Sanchez as well and then he went. Ramsey’s a top player, losing him for free would be a mistake.”
Campbell’s comments have been echoed by fellow Arsenal ‘Invincible’ Robert Pires.
The Frenchman hopes Ramsey can still be talked into signing fresh terms, with it vital that Unai Emery is able to retain the services of important figures down the spine of his team.
The World Cup winner said: “I don’t know what’s happening at the end of the season. Maybe he will extend, maybe not.
“He’s a great player, he’s been at Arsenal for a long time. He scores a lot of goals and is important to the squad.
“Aaron needs to talk with the board and find a good solution for him and for Arsenal.”
Ramsey has remained a regular for Arsenal this season amid the uncertainty surrounding his future.
He has helped the club to take in a seven-game winning run, with that sequence of results having lifted the Gunners to fifth in the Premier League table while also making positive progress in Carabao Cup and Europa League competition.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment