Share this on WhatsApp

calls for proactive action to mitigate flooding




By Lanre Adesanya
The Lagos State House of Assembly has frowned at a development they perceived undermines their constitutional powers, as a nominee of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for Local Government Auditor General Position affirms she had already resumed work prior the statutory confirmation of the house.
The nominee Mrs. Adesunbo Idiat Abolarin, while been screened during the house plenary today noted that she would ensure local government audit units are fully computerized and also influence better training for officers and boost skill acquisition.
It was however discovered that the nominee had resumed duty sometimes in March,2018 before her name was forwarded to the House for confirmation.
While pointing out the anomaly from Mrs. Abolarin’s resume, a member of the House, Hon. Rotimi Olowo wondered why the nominee would state in her curriculum vitae that she is the acting Auditor-General despite her appearance in October for confirmation.
Abolarin was a graduate of Accountancy from Yaba College of Technology in 1986 and got chartered in 1991. She joined the state Local Government service in 1994.
The House however, urge Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to reactivate the office of drainage in the State in order to be alive to its responsibility, saying evacuation of the major canals across the State should be intensified.
The House also called on the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Prince Rotimi Ogunleye to clear illegal structures built on setbacks of canals across the state.
The Local Government and Local Council Development Areas were also instructed to imbibe the monthly clearing of secondary drainages across the state as well.
Hon. Makinde Rasheed Lanre representing Ifako Ijaiye II, moved the motion Under Matter of Urgent Public Importance during Tuesday’s plenary.
The lawmaker cites havoc wrecked by the recent torrential rain in Lagos State which he said had claimed the live of a person in his constituency while others lost their properties. He believes the disaster was caused by flooding.
Makinde reiterated the need to desilt all drainages in the State and to also kick against dumping of refuse indiscriminately.
Contributing, Hon. Rotimi Olowo representing Somolu constituency I, stated that ministry of the Environment should be called upon to explain what they have done in the last one year.
Olowo noted, “People needed to be cautioned to stop dumping of dirt in the drainage.”
Hon. Gbolahan Yishawu representing Eti Osa I, told his colleagues that drainage clearing is under public works Corporation and that one contractor is saddled with the clearing of drainages in the State. He suggested that the current arrangement is what they should look into.
Hon. Abiodun Tobun representing Epe 1 said the House should mandate the Ministry of Environment to do the needful, adding that the issue had been raised severally without any action.
In his submission, Hon. Bisi Yusuff disclosed an indiscriminate erection of building near a water bank, stating therefore “the situation must be urgently addressed to avert further disaster.”
The House also read for the third term and passed into law a bill for a law to establish Lagos State Mental Health Care Services and for other connected purposes .
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment