Share this on WhatsApp



We usually have a lot of misconception about the private organs. And there are myths that have become a part of trend over the years. And this has caused more damage than good. In a fun way this author tackles the matter in 20 points.
1. Vaginal discharge is normal.
2. Wearing panty liners 24/7 is not necessary.
3. Vaginas are acidic enough to BLEACH fabric, hence the discoloration of underwear.
4. Longer labias are more normal than smaller ones (but both are fine).
5. A mans sperm CAN throw off your ph balance and also change the smell of your vagina
6. It is not safe for vaginas to smell like sunshine and flowers so quit expecting it to.
7. STOP fucking douching and washing your vagina with bath&body works, and Victoria secret. Shits not healthy for the vagina.
8. The vagina cleans itself.
9. Having sex has no correlation of how “tight” your vagina is.
10. Yeast infections are COMMON!!!
11. The best thing you can do for your vagina is to leave it alone.
12. If your vagina stinks or your discharge stink and has a color than go see a gynecologist and stop trying to blame cause you stink.
13. Let it breathe.
14. The VAGINA is the narrow canal that runs INSIDE the body. NOT the whole genital area.
*Do not use soap in your vagina.*
15. Always urinate after sex to rinse the urinary tract of fluids that could be caught there and can cause UTIs.
16. Drink water.
17. COTTON panties ladies. Wearing silk, satin and lace seven days a week will abso-fucking-lutely throw your Ph off.
Don’t argue with me about this. I don’t give a fuck if you say your mama put you in satin diapers and all you’ve ever worn is satin panties. If that’s true, YOUR SHIT IS OFF. I GUARANTEE it.
18. Stop sprinkling powder on your lady bits, stop IMMEDIATELY! Talcum causes cancer. This isn’t a hoax or a joke and I don’t care if your 97 year old great Aunt Myrtle has been using it twice a day, everyday. STOP IT! TODAY!
19. Also the Vagina is a natural sperm killer, except when you’re ovulating with the exception of a very high ph level.
20. This is all correct and true. Stop letting men who think washing their ass and moisturizing is gay try and tell you how to care for your ladybits. Ladies, stop letting boys who got sex ed from Pornhub tell you about YOUR vagina.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment