Share this on WhatsApp
It’s October 22nd, but we know August 22 is  the unofficial day set aside to mark the food. It started as a joke, but I am glad we all came together to make #worldJollofriceDay and #NationalJollofriceday a thing. There is no food as unifying yet as divisive for West Africans.

Getting jollof recipe down can be very tricky, but the great thing is that once you have it down, you are golden.

Those who know me well know that I don’t play with my Jollof. Even though I like to say that no two pots of Jollof are the same, there are some basic principles for the absolute best jollof rice. Here they are:

Water
Always use equal parts rice and water; let steam do the work. Reason being that Jollof should be infused with steam, not boiled.  The more you are able to infuse your rice without overcooking, the tastier it is. If you boil jollof on super high heat, it’s pretty much mixed rice and stew . To ensure that the steam stays in the pot, I cover with foil then a tight fitting lead and cook on medium-low heat . People didn’t really understand when I first shared this tip in 2012, I am happy to see that it’s now the norm.  Check out pictorial in my jollof recipe .

Jollof- dambu – danbu – nama – plantain – dodo – nigeria – ghana – recipe – best
Jollof served with shredded beef & Plantain.

Color
There are two major determining factors for jollof color. These are:

properly fried base and
tomato paste (purée) .

I use one heaped tablespoon of paste per 2 fresh tomatoes. If you don’t like canned paste, you can make it yourself or substitute  paprika. I also do something which I call the paper towel test. The goal is to take the base oil from A to B as pictured below

Jollof – recipe – west – african – food – national – world – day – easy – best – recipe
Jollof with egg & Plantain

Richness, jollof, color
Jollof color test

Cook / Texture
Texture of jollof is just as important as the taste. You never want the rice to turn to mush, yet you don’t want undercooked rice. If you are ever in a sticky situation, here are some tips:

1. Too Much Water But Good Texture
If there is too much water in your Jollof, but the texture is just right. Transfer the rice to a wider pot (if possible), increase the heat to maximum and leave UNCOVERED. The water will evaporate quickly.
2. Too Much Water and Soggy
3. Undercooked Rice

Jollof – recipe – west – african – food – national – world – day – easy – best – recipe
Local Jollof with Ofada Rice

Taste
The unique taste of jollof comes from the cooking technique as well as basic seasonings and spices. General flavor profile of  jollof has Bayleaf, tomato, onion, bouillon (maggi), curry, thyme and salt. I have seen very old West African cookbooks with unique ingredients like nutmeg.  I also know some west African countries put ginger and garlic in theirs. It’s up to you to find the flavour pairing you enjoy the most, make sure the basics are included and build on those flavors. Also, do not be afraid to add more seasonings and spices after the rice is cooked, just make sure your rice is still hot when you do.
Jollof – recipe – west – african – food – national – world – day – easy – best – recipe

Pairing
The jollof experience is often as important as what it’s paired with. Jollof is NEVER served alone. A perfectly paired plate of jollof should include two or more of the follow:

Fried plantain (obviously)
Sauced or stewed meat
 Creamy coleslaw is always a great idea
Moimoi
Jollof – recipe – west – african – food – national – world – day – easy – best – recipe
Jollof with stewed meat, moimoi and fried plantain

There you have it folks! enjoy jollof day, cook a pot or two and share with family and friends.

How To Prepare Quick Oven Baked Coconut Rice

This is a quick recipe for when you are short on time. Enjoy!

Ingredients
4 cups rice – washed and completely drained
1 400ml cup coconut milk
2.5 cups water
2 tablespoons crayfish powder
½ onion – chopped
1-2 cup smoked meat or fish
2 tomatoes – chopped
1-2 hot peppers – chopped
Salt – to taste
3 seasoning cubes


Direction
Combine all ingredients in an oven safe pan. Cover Tightly with foil.
Cook at 450f for 40mins.
Stir.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment