Share this on WhatsApp



The PDP has alleged that the presidency has ordered the EFCC to detain the ex- Gov Ayodele Fayose, indefinitely.
According to the party’s National Publicity Secretary Kola Ologbondiyan, information at the party’s disposal and all over the social media indicated the arrest will be effected at midnight of Monday.
“The uncompromising stand of the outgoing governor against the present administration was the reason Ekiti State was invaded and taken by force during the last governorship election,” he said.
“By 12 midnight, the governor’s residence is expected to be surrounded by armed men of the EFCC under the pretext that they had information of his plot to escape.
“This is to achieve their plan to humiliate the governor and portray him in bad light to the public by dramatising his arrest.
“Nigerians can recall that it was the governor who offered to submit himself to the EFCC, despite the Commission’s clear display of bias and partisanship, as demonstrated in its various actions, especially its tweets and putting the governor on security watch-list.
“The EFCC even unprofessionally showed its bias in deriding the governor, making light of a very serious matter by mocking him and asking him to come before his tenure elapsed, which the governor declined — in line with the constitutional immunity.
“It is now beyond dispute that Governor Fayose is not a scoundrel running away from justice. Whatever the EFCC, APC, and the Presidency’s spin doctors may say, it is also clear to everyone that Fayose is not a coward; neither is he afraid of the EFCC,” he added.
He said since the EFCC said it had dusted up Fayose’s files, it should be ready to take him to court once he presents him at the agency’s office on Tuesday.
Speaking to journalists, Fayose said he was ready for the EFCC, denying the allegation that he was planning to run away.
“How can they say I want to run away and as such, they want to come and invade my residence when I left Ado Ekiti on my own to come and see them? Anyway, I don’t expect better than that from the Commission.
“I don’t care how long they will decide to keep me, but my voice will not go down. I represent the voice of the common people of Nigeria, I appreciate our party, the PDP, for their prompt reaction; but this nonsense will come to an end one day
“I am aware of that operational order on my arrest. Let them come; nobody can intimidate me. I don’t need their soft landing;Nigeria belongs to all of us. They are not God and they should stop playing one.”
But the EFCC said it had no time to play games with Fayose.
“The EFCC has no time for frivolity. Instead of this ‘mind game,’ Governor Ayodele Fayose should conserve his energy, as the Commission is ready for him,” said EFCC spokesman Wilson Uwajaren.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment