Share this on WhatsApp



 
Igbo leaders at an emergency meeting on Saturday, October 13, 2018, in Enugu, made disquieting remarks over the decision of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Friday, October 12, 2018, to pick former Governor Peter Obi of Anambra State as his running mate for the 2019 presidential candidate.
National Daily gathered that the Igbo leaders at the meeting held at the residence of the Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, protested that they were not consulted in the decision process to nominate Peter Obi as the vice presidential candidate of the PDP. The meeting was, however, said to be attended by PDP governors and lawmakers from the South East, including other prominent PDP stakeholders from Igbo land.
Those present at the meeting were identified to include Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State and Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State, among other PDP stakeholders.
It was gathered that the Igbo leaders were undecided on the candidature of Peter Obi as PDP vice presidential candidate for the 2019 general elections; they neither rejected nor accepted the nomination of Obi as Atiku’s running mate.
Governor David Umahi, Chairman of the South East Governors Forum, in a media interaction after the meeting complained that Igbo leaders were not consulted before the nomination was made by Atiku.
Governor Umahi, however, admitted that Atiku Abubakar has put them on notice that he would meet with the South East leaders to formally acquaint them of the nomination of Obi as his running mate.
The Ebonyi Governor remarked the PDP governors from the South East and other Igbo leaders were thrown into shock on the news of the vice presidential ticket given to Ndigbo without consultation or formal notice to the decision.
The Ebonyi Governor, however, acknowledged that Atiku Abubakar sent in a message during their meeting informing them that he was out of the country for a short period; and pleaded with them to remain calm that he would be coming down to the South East to dialogue with the leaders.
“We saw news flying up and down saying that our presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has picked a running mate from the zone.
“We were shocked because we were not consulted. While we were meeting, Atiku sent message that he travelled out of the country for a short period. He promised to come down and meet with South-east leaders,” Umahi declared.
The Vice Chairman of PDP South East, Augustine Umahi, also complained that PDP leaders in the South East read the news of Obi’s nomination as the PDP’s running mate on social media.
“Our leaders are saying that we are not yet aware that such a thing happened.
“We have got in touch him; he is traveling tonight and he promised that when he comes back, we shall meet.
“Peter Obi is our son, and is from the South East; we are not rejecting or accepting him but what we are saying is that we are not aware, you cannot shave a man in his absence,” the vice chairman protested.
There were insinuations that Chris Uba and other South East stakeholders are purportedly lobbying Atiku to drop Peter Obi as his running mate in the 2019 presidential election. Uba and the other stakeholders were said to be mounting pressure on the PDP presidential candidate to consider another PDP member from the South East as his running mate in the presidential race.
Meanwhile, PDP stakeholders in the South West were noted to have opened their hands widely to receive the vice presidential slot if the South East are not ready or interested in the party’s ticket. The South West PDP stakeholders were said to be waiting expectantly for the vice presidential ticket to be given to any of their members.
However, all the issues would be resolved as soon as Atiku returns from his short holidays overseas.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment