Share this on WhatsApp








There are emerging indicators that Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State may be considering fresh plots to seek refuge in the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, to avert political hostilities after his exit from office on October 15, 2018. The outcome of the October 6 and 7 national convention of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, won by former Vice President Abubakar Atiku is becoming the basis for considering dumping the PDP by the embattled Ekiti State Governor who has been under serious threat of immediate arrest and placed on watch list by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC.
National Daily gathered from party sources that the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, was suspected to seeking soft landing from the ruling APC to escape being hunted during the 2019 general elections. The party sources insinuated that the Rivers State Governor was suspected to allegedly be working behind the scene to get the PDP field a candidate who may not have the capacity to confront President Muhammadu Buhari of the APC in the 2019 presidential election. The governor was suspected to be supporting Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State for the PDP presidential ticket in the belief that the Sokoto Governor may not pull strong string against Buhari.
However, the Tambuwal project could not sail through.
Some PDP leaders have demonstrated the consternation that Governor Fayose’s reaction and threat to quit the PDP over the result of the national convention exposed the extent of the failed anti-PDP plot. Fayose and Wike were in the vanguard of caustic attacks on President Buhari after the 2015 election tragedy in the PDP. They have subsequently been on target for annihilation by the APC government. After the fall of Ekiti PDP in the governorship election won by APC, the signal has been strong that the fall of Rivers PDP is imminent.
Meanwhile, Fayose on Monday declared his plan to dump the PDP; he, however, did not disclose his next destination.
The Ekiti governor further declared that he would renounce his PDP membership anytime from now;” insisting: “After consultations, I will speak clearly to Nigerians.”
Fayose in the statement remarked that he had no regret joining forces with Governor Wike to support Governor Tambuwal for the PDP presidential ticket in the primary election.
Fayose had declared: “We have no regret aligning with Governor Wike to support Governor
Tambuwal for the presidential ticket and no apologies either.
“We kept the party alive and strong when most men became ladies. We never compromised. If any group feels it can do it alone, we will see how far they can go.
“I may renounce my membership of the party if the need arises.
“In the main time, myself and others will continue with our consultations while watching the turn of events.
“We cannot but appreciate leaders that have intervened so far, but this release became necessary to avoid fresh crisis or misrepresentation.”
Fayose’s declaration validates the pre-convention suspicions and innuendoes of working for the opposition and using such plot to negotiate soft landing.
The PDP National Convention where Atiku was elected the party’s presidential candidate has continued to be celebrated as most transparent election ever conducted in Nigeria. All the presidential aspirants accepted the result and many have congratulated the winner, Atiku Abubakar. PDP stakeholders are of the view that Fayose’s protest and threat goes beyond the party’s convention.









Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment