Share this on WhatsApp


Sadly after the Leicester City versus Westham game. Some Nigerians who now supports the Leicester City club because of their former player, Ahmed Musa and current Nigerians in the squad — Ndidi Wilfred and Kelecho Iheanachor — would have the good news, of Ndidi scoring a goal, cut short by the tragic news.

Fans have filled the area outside Leicester City’s King Power stadium, in tribute to the club’s owner who’s feared dead in a fiery helicopter crash.
The billionaire owner of English Premier League club Leicester City was one of five people killed after his helicopter crashed shortly after take off yesterday, it has been confirmed.

A statement released by Leicester City said Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha was onboard the helicopter which crashed and burned just moments after taking off from the football stadium.

Two members of the Thai billionair’es staff, Nursara Suknamai and Kaveporn Punpare, also died along with pilot Eric Swaffer and passenger Izabela Roza Lechowicz.

“It is with the deepest regret and a collective broken heart that we confirm our Chairman was among those to have tragically lost their lives,” a club statement read.

“A man of kindness, of generosity, and a man whose life was defined by the love he devoted to his family and those he successfully led.

“Leicester City was a family under his leadership, it is as a family we will grieve.”

Vichai bought Leicester for $70 milion in 2010 when it was in the second-tier Championship and funded the revival that peaked with the 5000/1 outsiders producing one of the greatest upsets in sports by winning the title.

The helicopter burst into flames after crashing into a car park. (Supplied)
Vichai, who started with just one shop and grew Thailand’s massive King Power duty-free chain, was known for arriving and leaving the stadium in central England in his helicopter.

CHOPPER ‘OUT OF CONTROL’

According to witnesses, the helicopter just cleared the top of the stadium shortly after Saturday’s match against West Ham before it started to spin before plummeting to the ground and bursting into flames.

John Butcher, who was near the stadium at the time of the crash, told the BBC his nephew saw the helicopter spiral out of control apparently due to a faulty rear propeller.


“Within a second it dropped like a stone to the floor,” he said.


“Luckily it did spiral for a little while and everybody sort of ran, sort of scattered.

“As far as we are aware nobody around the car park was caught up in this problem.”

Flowers and wreaths have been left outside the stadium following the tragedy.


The outpouring of emotion at the stadium reflects how highly the ownership is regarded in the city, which has only one professional soccer team.

Vichai has formed a close bond with the fans, sometimes mingling with them at games, in contrast to some Premier League owners who maintain a distance.

The Air Accident Investigation Branch is investigating the circumstances surrounding the crash.

The club owner was aboard the helicopter along with four others when it crashed. (AAP)
Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha: In profile

– Billionaire Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha, who is said by Forbes to be the fifth-richest person in Thailand, provided the funds that helped the team beat odds to collect the trophy in 2016. They reached the quarter-finals of the Champions League in 2017.

– The 60-year-old father-of-four owns Thai duty-free retail giant King Power.

– Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha bought Leicester City in 2010 for AUD$70million.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment