Share this on WhatsApp



 
Governor Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa of Delta State on Sunday won the governorship primary election of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2019 governorship election in the state.
The Chairman of the Delta State PDP governorship primary election, Uzo Nwandu, declared that of the 3, 278 accredited delegates from all the local government areas in Delta State, 26 votes were invalid and 3, 252 votes validated the Governor Okowa candidature of the PDP for the 2019 polls. Okowa was the sole aspirant in the primary election.
Former Governor James Ibori participated in the PDP primary election where he mobilized support of all Deltans for the re-election of Governor Okowa in 2019. Ibori had declared that Okowa is the sole Governor of Delta State. “Myself, my family, my constituency, we will all support Governor Okowa for second term. I appeal to all Deltans to vote Okowa for second term; he is the candidate of our party, the PDP, and we will all return in 2019,” Ibori had declared.
Okowa remarked inter alia: “During the 2015 elections, you will recall that promises were made and we have continued to do the best that we can despite the very challenging times to ensure that we met with the promises.
“But one good thing that Deltans have done is that they have continued to pray for us and partner with us in governance.
“And I must say that I am very grateful to all Deltans particularly our leaders, our youths and our women. I thank you all for all that you have done to ensure that we have a peaceful state because without peace, we cannot develop.
“The PDP in Delta is a family and we are very proud of this family and because we realize that we are a family.
“PDP has insisted that there will be equitable process where there is justice and fairness; because we are one family the PDP endorsed my candidacy in 2014 and I went through by the special grace of God during the elections and we won.
“Today in your belief for equity, justice and fairness, the party has returned me unopposed as its candidate; I am very grateful and I thank you for being a party that reasons that we can only be a family when there is equity and fairness.”
Okowa retained Deputy Governor Kingsley Otuaro as his running mate for the 2019 election.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment