Share this on WhatsApp


The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, has revealed to reporters that there are many corruption cases against the Nigeria Football Federation, but will take it one after the other.

This was made known by the lawyer to the anti-graft body, Barr Steve Odiase explained recently at the FCT High Court, Maitama, Abuja.

The EFCC had dragged the NFF to court over the diversion of N3.4bn FIFA grant given by the Federation of International Football Association, FIFA, in 2015 for the development of football in Nigeria.

It will be noted that the three officials – Christopher Andekin, Rajan Zaka and Jafaru Mamza – pleaded not guilty to the 5-count charge against them after they were finally brought before the court.

They have posted a bond of five million Naira each and have also surrendered their international passports, hence none of them can travel out of the country.

Steve Odiase representing the EFCC confirmed the adjournment of the case to November 28.

“The case has been adjourned till November 28,” Odiase disclosed.

“The charges are mainly on the diversion of FIFA grant for the development of Nigeria football to personal accounts and that was not meant to be. He continued

“This was between 2014 and 2015. This is a criminal case, it’s not a civil matter.”

According to the EFCC, the top brass of the football house were not included in the suit because they could not trace anything to them.

“We did the investigation and looked at the case holistically and these are the officers in charge. The money was traced to their accounts. We didn’t get anything from the top. If it’s not traceable, they may have given directives or approval”, Odiase noted.

The trio, in 2015 allegedly diverted money to the tune of $9,535,923.87 belonging to the Federation to personal use.

It is also alleged that Andekin fraudulently diverted N1, 353,407.22 from the domiciliary account of the NFF domiciled in one of the new generation banks, without due process.

NFF staff who were in court on Thursday on solidarity visit include; Okey Obi, Bola Oyeyode, Ademola Olajire among others.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment