Share this on WhatsApp




Uncertainty still surrounds the whereabouts of former governor of Ekiti state, Ayodele Fayose, following alleged plans by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFFC) to invade his Abuja residence where he had retired after handing over to Kayode Fayemi, the new governor of the state.
Fayose, who several times expressed his readiness to submit himself to the EFCC headquarters in Abuja today, 16th of October was said to have left Ekiti state on Monday for Abuja.
In his last tweet, Fayose said he had informed the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) of his readiness to submit himself for questioning and that there was no need for drama.
“It is known to the public that I offered to make myself available at the EFCC office today”, he tweeted.
“However, as I write, there are strange movements around my residence and I’m aware of planned invasion any moment from now. Despite this, I’Il be at the commission’s office tomorrow as promised”.
Meanwhile the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday had alleged that the presidency had directed the agency to incarcerate Fayose indefinitely.
In a statement issued by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP claimed that the information at the party’s disposal indicated that the EFCC had been placed on alert to arrest the governor.
He said that the alleged directive by the Presidency was not unconnected with the plot to use the EFCC and other security agencies to incarcerate the governor owing to his persistent criticism of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress government.
The statement read in part, “The uncompromising stand of the outgoing governor against the present administration was the reason Ekiti State was invaded and taken by force during the last governorship election.
“By 12 midnight, the governor’s residence is expected to be surrounded by armed men of the EFCC under the pretext that they had information of his plot to escape.
“This is to achieve their plan to humiliate the governor and portray him in bad light to the public by dramatising his arrest.
“It is now beyond dispute that Governor Fayose is not a scoundrel running away from justice. Whatever the EFCC, APC, and the Presidency’s spin doctors may say, it is also clear to everyone that Fayose is not a coward; neither is he afraid of the EFCC,” he added.
According to him, “Since the EFCC said it had dusted up Fayose’s files, it should be ready to take him to court once he presents him at the agency’s office on Tuesday.

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment