Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Advertisers Association of Nigeria (ADVAN) has announced the commencement of preparations for the 8th edition of its Awards for Marketing Excellence.
This year’s event, which is scheduled to hold on Sunday 18th November at the Civic Center Victoria Island, recognizes commitment and the fostering of professional excellence in advertising and marketing practice in Nigeria by recognizing good works by practitioners and institutions in the industry.
Speaking on the awards, The Chairman of the Organizing Committee Mr. Austen Osokpor said that “The ADVAN Awards for Marketing Excellence will be presented to organizations and marketing professionals who have achieved extraordinary success from innovative and effective marketing practices.
He further stated  that The ADVAN Awards was highly respected because of its meticulous and transparent judging process, “To win an ADVAN award ,  you must submit your work for thorough screening by the judges, who evaluate all entries  based on international standards, this is what puts The ADVAN Awards ahead of all other awards  in the Industry”  Osokpor  said.
The Judging Panel is a line-up of distinguished professionals in field of Marketing, which include, Dr Obiaya, Ikechukwu, PhD: Dean School of Media & Communication, Pan -Atlantic University, Mr. Lanre Adisa, MD/CCO, Noah’s Ark Communications, Mr. Benson Evbuomwan- Former Marketing Director Honey Well Plc, Mr. Seni Ogunkola, Head Marketing Communications,9Mobile Nigeria, Prof. Abigail Ogwezzy-Ndisika, PhD, MNIPR, arpa , Department of Mass Communications University of Lagos, Mrs Hannah Oyebanjo, Managing Director, Redwood Consulting.
The ADVAN Awards for Marketing Excellence provides the opportunity for organizations to gain competitive advantage by having their projects, initiatives, contributions, products and services recognized.
The Awards’ provide the ultimate platform for improving brand awareness, loyalty and retentions by increasing the respective recipients’ prestige. The ADVAN Awards winners are acknowledged as industry leaders and named the elite in their industry.
This year’s edition promises to be a most competitive and exciting one, with two new Categories: Outstanding Marketing Professional of the Year and Product Packaging Award of the Year.
Other categories include -Best Marketing Campaigns (Strategy and Execution), Innovation, Digital and Social Media Marketing, Consumer Promotion, Brand of the Year, Brand Manager of the Year, Marketing on a Shoestring, Public Sector Marketing, Corporate Social Responsibility, New Brand/Extension, Experiential Marketing, Future Leader Marketing, and Brand Journalist of the year.
 
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment