Share this on WhatsApp



 
Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, says his path in politics is in the hands of the Almighty God, who he said has been faithful and gracious to him over the years.
Ekweremadu, whom National Daily learnt is being wooed by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), is said to be contemplating his options with the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) following some decisions taken by the PDP’s presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar.
Recall that that there has been speculation that he may defect from the peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) following alleged betrayal by Atiku.
National Daily had gathered that Ekweremadu is not happy about how he was used and dumped during the build up to the PDP convention where Atiku had emerged as its presidential candidate. Atiku, it was alleged had offered the running mate position to Ekweremadu only to renege after clinching ticket, and offered the position to former governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi.
A reliable source had told National Daily that apart from not being consulted in picking a running mate to Atiku Abubakar, Ekweremadu did not make an input in the composition of Presidential Campaign Council (PCC).
The source said Ekweremadu became the “bastion” of the PDP when everything was bleak.
“Not only is the senator’s name missing on the list of the Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), he just heard it in the news like every other person and made no inputs. So, they don’t need any soothsayer to know that there is a serious gang-up against Ekweremadu,” the source said.
“So, the general feeling in his camp is that he has been used and dumped and should, therefore, take a serious look at his future with the PDP. But I know Ekweremadu has not yielded to such pressures yet,” the source said.
But in a statement posted on Facebook, he said: “In the past 24 hours, I have been inundated with calls from friends and political associates seeking clarification on the rumours of my departure from the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), which has dominated the media.
According to him, he’s still a bonafide member of the party and will not leave for whatever reasons.  “I am grateful to you – members of my family, my friends, political associates, and admirers across Nigeria and beyond – for your uncommon concern. I am indeed humbled by your kind words of solidarity and support. Please, rest assured that I am still in the PDP.”
He said his vision in politics is a system that works for everybody, a social and political environment where everybody, every section, and every tribe not only counts, but is also seen to count, adding that  as leaders, people should be must be mindful of this, for any system built on anything less will not endure.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment