President of AKISCOM, Felix Udoh flanked by others at the 31st anniversary of AKISCOM
        
 


 
Akwa Ibom State Community (AKISCOM), Lagos, penultimate Saturday, 20th of October, 2018 rolled out drums to celebrate the 31st anniversary of the community in Lagos state.
Recall that President of the community, Prince Felix Udoh, had last month led the executives and members of the Community to the capital city, Uyo, to participate in activities to celebrate the 31st anniversary of the creation of Akwa Ibom State, including a Special Thanksgiving Service at the Uyo Township Stadium and Banquet at the Government House.
AKISCOM, Lagos came into existence in 1987, following the creation of Akwa Ibom State from the Old Cross River State that year. In the last 31 years, the Community has recorded significant achievements and developed into formidable and united institution with the support of successive State Governments.
Speaking at event held at the community’s main hall in Yaba, Lagos, prince Udoh told journalists that the journey had been bumpy, but expressed his appreciation to the governor of Akwa Ibom state, Dr. Emmanuel Udom, whom he said had been quite supportive.
Also speaking on the 2019 general elections, Prince Udoh advised Nigerians, especially youths to shun violence. “Youths must not allow politicians to use them to cause havoc, rather, they like every other Nigerians should go out and vote for the candidates of their choice as the country belong to us all,” he said.
He also tasked all Akwa Ibom indigenes in Lagos to be law abiding and be peaceful in their relationships with other residents in Lagos.
Also speaking at the epoch making event, immediate past president of AKISCOM, Chief Elijah Ufot, said AKISCOM has been a focal point of Akwa Ibom state politics, urging Akwa Ibom state indigene to support the good works of the governor of the state, Emmanuel Udom.
He said the objectives of the AKISCOM as conceived by the founding fathers had been tremendously improved upon by successive administrations of the Community in conformity with the ever growing and changing trends of socio-economic demands of our people and the society with ever growing determination by the successive administrations not to allow the labours of our founding fathers and past leaders to be in vain.
The Community has been blessed with very good, selfless and responsible leaders over the period.  Between 1987 and now, the Community has produced eight (8) Principal Leaders at the helm of the affairs of the Community including: Elder E A Eniang (Late),1987-1990;  Chief Samuel Asumah,1990-1993; Obong (Dr) Philip Akpan (Late),1993-199;  Obong (Dr) Nsima E Umoh,1999-2005; Abong Okon Ekpo Johnson, 2005-2008; Elder Etesin W Essien, 2008-2011 and Chief Elijah S Ifot, 2011-2017.
 
 
 
 

			
			Post Views: 
			311