Share this on WhatsApp



By SUNDAY ODIBASHI
Former Vice President Abubakar Atiku, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the 2019, making his acceptance speech on Sunday in Port Harcourt, Rivers State after his emergence as the presidential candidate of the PDP, paid special tribute to former President Olusegun Obasanjo who he reconginsed to have brought him up in Nigerian politics and gave him tutelage in governance. The PDP presidential candidate also commended the transparent, free and fair primary election of the party in Port Harcourt.
Atiku advocated the imperatives of PDP leaders joining forces to find solutions to Nigerian problems. He stated that it is not enough to criticize the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, for the failure of governance in over the three years of dominance bit to proffer solutions to the problems, adding that when the campaign commences Nigerians will notice the difference between PDP and APC. Atiku assured all other presidential aspirants that her would work with the, observing the imperatives of working together for the success of the party. “Nigerians are yearning for the return of the PDP. History has beckoned on all of us to return PDP to power,” Atiku declared inter alia.
The PDP presidential candidate further stated: “it is not enough to identify the challenges or failures of the APC, we must proffer solutions to the challenges we have identified.”
Atiku promised that the government of the PDP will rather improve on the transparent election observed at the Convention. “We will improve on the transparent, free and fair election we have witnessed; we will not be intoxicated with power when we get there,” Atiku declared.
The PDP presidential candidate in his tribute to former President Olusegun Obasanjo, acknowledged that Obasanjo brought him to limelight in the current democratic dispensation in 1999 when he made him his vice presidential candidate. “I must pay special tribute to my former boss. I wouldn’t have been standing here if I was not picked by my former President Olusegun Obasanjo as his Vice President. Under his tutelage, I learnt quite a lot about governance. I believe the experience I got from him will impact on me in governance of the country,” Atiku declared.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment