Share this on WhatsApp



 
By SUNDAY ODIBASHI
Former Vice President Abubakar Atiku has won the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, for the 2019 general elections. Atiku secured 1532 votes to defeat 11 other presidential aspirants who contested the PDP National Convention held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State on Saturday, October 6 and Sunday, October 7, 2018. Accordingly, Atiku has become the presidential candidate of the PDP in 2019.
The counting of the votes was concluded at about 12.19pm.
Governor Nyesom Wike has congratulated Atiku on his victory and emergence as PDp Presidential candidate. Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State also congratulated Atiku, while Senator Bruce sat beside the former Vice President all through the period from the beginning of the convention to the conclusion.
Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State came second with 693 votes.
Other aspirants had the following votes: President of the Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki 317 votes; Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso, former Governor of Kano State, 158 votes; Senator Jonah Jang, former Governor of Plateau State, 19 votes; Datti Baba Ahmad 5 votes, David Mark 35 votes, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, former Governor of Kaduna State 74 votes; Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo of Gombe State 111 votes, Attahiru Bafarawa, former Governor of Sokoto State, 48 votes, former Governor Sule Lamido of Jigawa State 96 votes, Taminu Turaki SAN 65 votes.
Chairman of the National Convention Committee, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State conducted the counting of the votes of the three top contenders who include Atiku, Tambuwal and Saraki after Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State, Secretary of the PDP National Convention Committee, had counted the votes of nine aspirants.
A total of 68 votes were voided due to improper thumb printing by some delegates.
Atiku will now face President Muhammadu Buhari whose primary election was ratified on Saturday, October 6, 2018, at the National Convention of the All Progressives Congress, APC, by 7,000 delegates of the party, beside other presidential candidates.
National Daily monitored the PDP Convention in Port Harcourt from Lagos.
Meanwhile, PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, is expected to make formal declaration and present Atiku to all Nigerians as PDP Presidential candidate for the 2019 elections.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment