Share this on WhatsApp



The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has demanded the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate allegations of corruption against the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, which a Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday gave a marching order to the Commission to commence investigation immediately.
This was contained in a press release issued on Wednesday by Ikenna Aghagbobi, CACOL’s Media and Publications Officer on behalf of its.
CACOL Executive Chairman, Debo Adeniran, in a statement on Wednesday in Lagos declared: “Our call is based on a suit which was reportedly filed by Bishop Osadolor Ochei alleging that Oshiomhole while in office as Edo State Governor, acquired property in United States of America, South Africa and Dubai worth billions of US dollars and far in excess of his legitimate income. He also alleged before the court that the ex-governor built a sprawling mansion worth more than N10 billion in his home town, Iyamho, Edo State while in office.
“The Cleric also stated in the suit that he had on November 4, 2016, sent a petition to the EFCC narrating some corrupt practices the ex-governor was involved in. He maintained that EFCC’s refusal to act on petitions containing “weighty allegations” against Oshiomhole, ran contrary to Section 15(5) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) which enjoined the State to abolish corrupt practices.”
Adeniran further pointed out that it is necessary for the EFCC to investigate these allegations for the purpose of convincing the Nigerian public that its arrest and prosecution of corruption culprits was not targeted at only members of the opposition.
According to the CACOL boss: ”The rumors which have been making the rounds indicating that the present administration has been witch hunting members of the opposition while portraying members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as saints needs to be debunked by EFCC. “
Adeniran asked: “How can a body whose sole obligation is to investigate and prosecute anyone indicted of a corruption crime be reluctant to carry out its statutory assignment against suspects or dismissing these allegations if they are found to lack substance? “
He continued: “Although it is shameful that the EFCC would need to be reminded to investigate allegations leveled against Oshiomhole, we recall that several officials of the Federal Government who have been exposed for committing forgery and other crimes are still being treated with kid gloves. This is the major problem we have in our fight against corruption.”
The CACOL boss concluded: “While we urge the EFCC to initiate a diligent probe on the weighty allegation of funds diversion and misappropriation against the APC Chairman, we challenge Oshiomhole to debunk these allegations and take whatever steps he considers necessary if these allegations are untrue as this will set an example worth emulating.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment