Share this on WhatsApp



 
Professor Kingsley Chiedu Moghalu, presidential candidate of the Young Progressives Party (YPP) in the 2019 elections and a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, on Thursday renewed advocacy for restructuring of the polity, arguing that this is the only way to restore Nigeria to true federalism.
National Daily learnt that Moghalu delivering keynote speech at the 6th Annual Conference of the Nigerian Political Science Association at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Enugu State, on October 29, insisted that Nigeria cannot evade restructuring if the country must speed up development.
Titled “How to Restructure Nigeria: A Vision of the Shape of Things to Come”, the erudite political economist, lawyer and former United Nations official went beyond political promises to sketch a clear vision of why, how, what and when of his constitutional restructuring agenda for Nigeria.
National Daily recalls that restructuring has become a popular buzzword for presidential candidates, including leaders of ethnic nationalities, negotiating bloc support for the 2019 elections. It was noted that few politicians have spelt out in clear terms what they understand or mean by the term “restructuring”.
National Daily, however, noticed that Moghalu has done so in his most recent book “Build, Innovate and Grow (BIG): My Vision for Our Country”. BIG, which has a Foreword written by Muhammadu Sanusi II, the Emir of Kano and former Governor of the CBN, was launched in Lagos in February 2018, few days before Moghalu made public declaration of his ambition for the president of Nigeria at a world press conference in Abuja.
The book was identified as Moghalu’s manifesto where he sets out his vision for leadership and governance, nation building, economic transformation and foreign policy for Nigeria.
In one of its chapters, the YPP candidate argued strongly in favour of constitutional restructuring to restore Nigeria to true federalism.
Kingsley Moghalu previously served as a UN official for 17 years in nation building, risk management and strategic planning roles in New York, Cambodia, Croatia, Tanzania and Switzerland before his appointment as Deputy Governor of the CBN from 2009 to 2014, and as Professor of the Practice in International Business and Economic Policy at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University in Massachusetts, USA from 2015 to 2017.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment