By Lanre Adesanya 

Nigerian role models in major professional divides have counseled stakeholders in government, to intensify efforts in the creation of conducive environment for youngsters to  be groomed for leadership and team spirit which is lacking in the country.

They urge government across all levels to prioritise affordable and qualitative education for the Nigerian child so as to restore  hope to the country.
These eminent Nigerians made the plea at eight season of the  School Prefects Leadership Summit organised by the International Leadership, Talents and Award Conference (INLE TAC2018) in collaboration with the Lagos State Ministry of Youths and Social Development.

The event was tagged: “Excellence in Leadership Conference’’ situated it central discourse on the topic : “Qualities to Look Out for in Leaders That Nigeria Needs Today’’.The event brought together hundreds of school prefects in the state.
The Guest Speaker at the event, who is a legal practitioner,Mr Jide Ologun,said the nation needed enabling environment to inculcate leadership values in young children early in live  to give hope to the nation.
Ologun, a National Development advocate, who commended efforts of some state governments in making education free, said that the recent step of the new Ekiti governor, Dr  Kayode Fayemi to cancel education tax was apt.

“The rumoured plan of the government to increase tuition fees in public universities is uncalled for. This is a challenge to building
leadership.“There is hope for this country but our main problem is leadership and education is key to reshape out future leaders. We hope that a new leadership will emerge that understands the dynamics of national development.

“Engaging younger ones is quite helpful, we must do this early enough to inculcate in them values that aid national development. They must know appreciate values obtainable in civilised society,’’ he said.According to him, the main challenge hampering national development is
poor education and lack of enabling environment to develop capacity.
“We should be celebrating free education in this country. There must
be enabling environment for younger ones to imbibe leadership spirit.
Education is critical to national development.
“I can tell you that all we need is leadership to bring real change,’’ he added.
The advocate, who frowned at the havoc Boko haram insurgents had wrecked on the education sector  of the country said that the terrorists had dissipated the capacity of education, especially in the North East.


Also speaking, a Nollywood Actor,Mr. Raphael Stevens while gearing up the leadership abilities inherent in the youngsters harps on the need for selflessness and ability to team up with others to achieve a common goal as a veritable tool in nation building.


“The crux of the problem we have today is leadership. We must inculcate the core values of leadership in this crop of students for them not to become a disappointment and disgrace to their generation.
“There is hope for this country if we train the young students who are holding one position or the other in their schools.
“My advice to the government is to make education free for all. We want states where education is not yet free to emulate steps taken by some states where education is made free’’.
Stevens, a multilingual motivational speaker,called on government to make study environment conducive for students, commended the school feeding programme of the Federal Government as a step in the right direction  .
The actor, who urged Nigerian youths to believe in the country, said that only young people can raise the dwindling hope of this country.
The Convener, Mr Damilola, Paul, said that the event was to rise up to the challenges of leadership deficit in order to ensure growth and
development of the nation.
Paul,said leadership values must be given to school children if the nation would ever move


forward.
He called on school administrators and proprietors to prioritise leadership training saying “this is the major challenge facing the
nation’’.
One of the participants, Master Wellens Rufus, Laboratory Prefect, Divine Blessed College, Agege said that the event was educative,
saying that he had learnt how to be a good leader.
Also speaking, Master Christopher Jerry, Senior Prefect Boy, CleverLand High School, Agege, said that he had been motivated to be a
good leader who is selfness and honest.
Miss Aderinsola Alayaki, Head Prefect Girl, Great Sharon College, Agege said she had learnt to be a humble, confident, committed,
selfless leader.






			
			PV: 
			0