Share this on WhatsApp



Impressed by Gold Cup standard and quality, Ekiti State is set to hijack the nation’s prestigious pre-season tournament hosting right from Benue State.
The General Manager of Phoenix Athletic Sports Club, Bayo Olanlege, disclosed to Newsmen in Ado-Ekiti, that he has been given the mandate by Ekiti State to woo the organisers of the foremost Nigerian pre-season tourney.
“This is one pre-season football Tournament I follow with keen interest when you look at the clubs that has taken part in it. Any state that really love and knows the important of hosting a football event of this magnitude will bid for the hosting of the event.
He continued “I there say that the Gold Cup have helped clubs to become champions or gained CAF Champions League or Confederation Cup ticket.
“I can use the likes of Lobi Stars and Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries (MFM FC) as a reference. Be mindful that Remo Stars who are on the verge of returning to the NPFL have featured in the last four editions while Kano Pillars who are the defending champion are also in the Aiteo Cup final while Katsina United a Gold Cup semi-finalist last season lost to the Sia Maisu Gida team in the Aiteo Cup semi-final in Lagos.”
He stressed further adding the economy value of the football event to hosting state.
“The tourney has also helped our youths to be gainfully employed as our domestic clubs use the event to scout players.
“It has enjoyed good mileage from the media as the whole idea of it was from Tunde Shamsudeen the general coordinator of the event who alongside some persons in the Media Team have dedicated close to 15 years reporting the Nigerian football and its domestic Leagues.
“I hear Benue are to host this year’s edition, which is the 6th, am afraid Ekiti State may rival them to it.
“We are not trying to flex muscles with Benue but for sports to develop from the grassroot, football in the Fountain of Knowledge needs an event like the Gold Cup to awaken the potential within and show everyone what great host we could be,” he concluded.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment