Share this on WhatsApp



 
Wife of the President, Aisha Buhari has expressed her disappointment over the way the All Progressives Congress (APC), led by Adams Oshiomhole conducted it primaries nationwide.
Recall that controversies had trailed the conduct of primaries in some states with governors petitioning President Muhammadu Buhari over the decision of the National Working Committee of the party.
There have also been issues over the conduct of the party’s governorship primaries in Imo, Rivers, Zamfara, and Kaduna states.
Commenting via twitter on Sunday, the president’s wife said the APC was not Aisha Buhari, wife of President Muhammadu Buhari, says the All Progressives fair to aspirants who partook in its primaries across the country.
She said many others had contested and yet had their result delayed, knowing fully well that automatic tickets have been given to other people, adding that given the development, one will not hesitate than dissociate from such unfairness, be neutral and speak for the voiceless.
“It is disheartening to note that some aspirants used their hard earned money to purchase nomination forms, got screened, cleared and campaigned vigorously yet found their names omitted on Election Day, these forms were bought at exorbitant prices,” she wrote.
“All Progressives Congress being a party whose cardinal principle is change and headed by a comrade/activist whose main concern is for the common man, yet, such impunity could take place under his watch.
“Given this development one will not hesitate than DISSOCIATE from such unfairness, be neutral and speak for the voiceless.
“It is important for the populace to rise against impunity and for voters to demand from aspirants to be committed to the provision of basic amenities.”
Halilu Ahmed, Aisha Buhari’s brother, is a governorship aspirant of the APC in Adamawa state. He has called for the cancellation of the primary election won by Muhammadu Bindow, governor of Adamawa.
In the same vein, Nuhu Ribadu, former chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), said the exercise was hijacked.
President Buhari emerged unopposed in a direct primary election, but the exercise in some states was marred by controversies.
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment