Morenike Naomi Oluwaseyi
        Share this on WhatsApp



 
Oni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, on Friday unveiled his new wife, Queen Morenike Naomi Oluwaseyi.
The new Queen, 25, a prophetess, is the Founder/President of En-Heralds, an interdenominational ministry based in Akure, Ondo state.
She started public ministry at the age of eighteen and became a full time evangelist in October 2011.
The monarch, who made the announcement through his social media platforms, praised her for her beauty, uniqueness and royal qualities and most especially, the fear of God she has.
According to him, Naomi’s ascent the throne, his home and inner cockles of his heart, was divinely ordained. Simply put, Prophetess Naomi who has a church in Akure, Ondo State, the new queen of Ife kingdom, emerged by a supernatural procedure; she was handpicked by the divine oracle of Ile Ife.
You couldn’t fault Oba Ogunwusi for falling in love, and you couldn’t hate him for seeking her hand in marriage. The pressure to get the Ooni to marry another wife is therefore predicated on the need to avoid any case of accidental discharge that might rubbish the traditional institution he represents.
Soon after his second marriage to ex-wife, Wuraola Otiti Obanor, crashed to irreconcilable differences, Ooni seems to have rediscovered love in Naomi.
Though separated from his two estranged wives, Olori Adebukola and Wuraola, the Ooni is reckoned to be at an impressionable age, his level of power, influence and street cred nevertheless, to actually take his eyes off fine females
Prophetess is the new woman who titillates and tends to every need of the powerful monarch; the woman who ensures that the royal libido never lacks attention and excitement. Now, the Ooni has found improved strength and sweetness in the supple and sumptuous bosom of Olori Naomi. According to a source, so besotted with this beautiful lady is the Ooni that he doesn’t let her out of his sight for too long else he would be lovelorn and forlorn.
In one of his posts, the revered traditional ruler said he ““Shilekunola, Moronke, Naomi; the greatest Arsenal you can apply on this highly revered throne with many rules and regulations in the midst of undiluted tradition, heritage and culture is the “Fear Of God In You”, which is the beginning of your wisdom on this throne of Oduduwa. You are welcome home my beautiful and adorable queen.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment