Share this on WhatsApp



President Muhammadu Buhari has placed 50 hiph-profile Nigerians on travel ban following the implementation of the executive order No. 6 he made months ago.
A statement announcing the ban was issue Saturday by Buhari’s media aide Garba Shehu.
Although their names were not announced, those whose assets are above N50 million, and have been under corruption investigation and litigation so far are affected.
The Executive Order Number 6, the statement reads, seeks to ensure “that all assets within a minimum value of N50 million or equivalent, subject to investigation or litigation are protected from dissipation by employing all available lawful means, pending the final determination of any corruption-related matter.”
Shehu added that financial activities of these persons of interest are also being monitored by relevant agencies to ensure the assets are not dissipated and that such persons do not interfere with,investigation and litigation processes.
Deputy Sen. President Ike Ekweremadu and his boss Sen. President Bukola Saraki are among the politically exposed persons the Buhari government have had a running battle with for not disclosing their assets salted away across the world.
FULL STATEMENT BELOW
STATE HOUSE PRESS RELEASE
PRESIDENT BUHARI DIRECTS IMPLEMENTATION OF EO 6 IN FULL FORCE
Following the instant judicial affirmation of the constitutionality and legality of the Executive Order 6 (EO6), President Muhammadu Buhari has mandated the Attorney-General of the Federation and the Minister of Justice to implement the Order in full force.
To this end, a number of enforcement procedures are currently in place by which the Nigeria Immigration Service and other security agencies have placed no fewer than 50 high profile persons directly affected by EO6 on watch-list and restricted them from leaving the county pending the determination of their cases.
Also, the financial transactions of these persons of interest are being monitored by the relevant agencies to ensure that the assets are not dissipated and such persons do not interfere with, nor howsoever corrupt the investigation and litigation processes.
It is instructive to note that EO6 was specifically directed to relevant law enforcement agencies to ensure that all assets within a minimum value of N50 million or equivalent, subject to investigation or litigation are protected from dissipation by employing all available lawful means, pending the final determination of any corruption-related matter.
The Buhari administration reassures all well-meaning and patriotic Nigerians of its commitment to the fight against corruption, in accordance with the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and the general principles of the Rule of Law.
Accordingly, this administration will uphold the rule of law in all its actions and the right of citizens would be protected as guaranteed by the Constitution.
We, therefore, enjoin all Nigerians to cooperate with the law enforcement authorities towards ensuring a successful implementation of the Executive Order 6 which is a paradigm-changing policy of the Federal Government in the fight against corruption.
Garba Shehu
Senior Special Assistant to the President
(Media & Publicity)
October 13, 2018
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment