Share this on WhatsApp



 
Nigerians have be alerted against the circulation of a dangerous drug in circulation which purportedly boosts stamina, cure cancer, diabetes and some other diseases, imported into the country by a Chinese firm.
According to a memo by the National Intelligence agency (NIA) dated October 12, 2018, it said the South Korean Ministry of food and Drug Safety seized 2,751 Chinese drugs/capsules containing remains from foetuses, infants and flesh.
Also found in the unnamed capsules were 18.7 billion viruses, including Hepatitis B.
In the document seen by National Daily, the NIA alerted the Federal Ministry of Health, National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST), Customs and other relevant agencies to step up efforts in monitoring the importation of drugs from China into Nigeria.
The statement read: “The South Korean Customs Service on 30th September, 2018, revealed that it had seized two thousand, seven hundred and fifty-one (2,751) Chinese drugs/capsules, containing human remains from fetuses, infants and flesh imported into the country by some Chinese nationals.
“The manufacturers claimed that the drugs/capsules can boost stamina, cure cancer, diabetes and some other terminal diseases. The capsules were smuggled in suitcases and through international mail.
“South Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety indicated that eighteen billion, seven hundred million (18.7 billion) viruses, including hepatitis B virus, were found in the capsules. It stressed the making of the human-remain drugs and consuming them are crimes against humanity, which can also lead to serious health challenges.
“The Agency is monitoring the situation for detailed information. However, it is important for all relevant health regulatory agencies in Nigeria, especially the Federal Ministry of Health, NAFDAC, NDLEA and SON, to sensitise Nigerians of this development and warn them of the inherent dangers of patronizing drugs imported from China. The Customs Service, NIPOST and other mail delivery services, should also step up monitoring of cargoes and packages with drugs imported into Nigeria.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment