Share this on WhatsApp



 
The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has expressed shock over the death of its former Board of Trustees (BoT), Chief Tony Anenih.
Anenih, a former Minister of Works and Housing and one of the founding fathers of the PDP died on Sunday, October 28 at the ripe age of 85 at an Abuja Hospital where he was receiving treatment.
Reacting on Sunday, Kola Ologbondiyan, National Publicity Secretary in a statement said Chief Anenih’s ability to find solutions to very knotty political and governance issues, remains a colossus with unparalleled array of legacies which will be celebrated for generations.
He said the PDP is particularly pained that Chief Anenih left the stage at the time the party and the nation needed his wealth of experience the more, especially in our collective quest to restore good governance and democratic ideals in our country.
Ologbodiyan described the late Anenih as a great Nigerian, a light bearer, brilliant administrator, fine officer, quintessential nationalist and democratic icon, who made innumerable sacrifices for the unity, stability and development of our dear nation.
“His roles in ensuring the stability, not only of our great party but also for our nation at large, stood him out as a patriot who dedicated his life for the service of humanity.”
“The PDP therefore condoles with the Anenih family, the government and people of Edo state and pray that God will grant the nation the fortitude to bear this monumental loss,” he said.
In 2016, the former minister survived an eight hour heart surgery which was carried out in the UK.
In July 2018, the former PDP BOT chair cancelled his birthday celebration reportedly over what he described as the sad state of Nigeria.
On Sunday, April 16, 2017 Anenih’s wife, Patricia Anenih died, and on May14 of the same year, he lost his son Eugene Anenih.
He was quoted to have said that attaining a milestone of 85 years on earth was a privilege enjoyed by a few; and therefore, an occasion worth celebrating with loved ones and friends.
 
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment