Share this on WhatsApp



 
There is palpable tension in Kaduna for the death following the death of the traditional of Adara ethnic group in Kajuru local government area of Kaduna, Maiwada Galadima in captivity.
Recall that Galadima was abducted on October 19 alongside his wife, while his driver and four others were killed. Although his wife was released, Galadima was killed after his abductors allegedly collected ransom.
In a statement released on Friday by the state government, Galadima died in the wee hours of Friday, and to forestall another crisis, it has decided to reinstate the suspended 24-hour curfew in the state and its environs.
Samuel Aruwan, spokesman to Nasir el-Rufai, the state governor in the statement said the reinstated curfew is needed to help maintain peace and ease the tension in the state.
The governor vowed to bring to book the perpetrators of the act while urging the residents to remain law-abiding.
The curfew, which was initially imposed on Sunday, was relaxed by el-Rufai following recorded security improvement in some parts of the state.
“The Kaduna State Government has reinstated a 24-hour curfew on Kaduna metropolis and environs, Kasuwan Magani, Kajuru, Kateri and Kachia. The curfew is effective from 11am today, Friday, 26th October 2018 and will remain in force until further notice,” the statement read.
“This is a necessary step to help maintain peace as we mourn the death of HRH Agom Adara, who we lost in the early hours of today to the criminals who abducted him last week.
“The Kaduna State Government calls for calm in all our communities. The criminal elements who perpetrated this crime should not be allowed to divide us.
“This is a struggle between good, decent, law-abiding people trying to uphold the peace and criminals who want to divide and destroy. It is not a struggle between religious or ethnic groups. Let no criminal find succour in faith or tribe.
“Let us unite against every criminal activity. Let us stand together as human beings who have a right to live in peace.”
 
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment