Share this on WhatsApp



David De Gea has described his recent inclusion in the FIFA FIFPro World XI as an “honour,” but also stressed it is team success that matters much more to him.
The Manchester United and Spain no.1 spoke to us at the Aon Training Complex with his individual trophy last week, after being presented with it during a special ceremony in London.
It was an opportunity for the reigning Sir Matt Busby Player of the Year to meet some of his peers and legends and further validation of his outstanding talent.
“Well it was a pleasure to win this award, especially with the great players that have been in that team,” De Gea told MUTV.
“So, it was a huge honour to win that and it’s great to be recognised as the best goalkeeper in the world. I am very happy and proud.
“I think the most important thing for me about this award is the players vote to make this team so I am really proud about it. It’s really, really special for me. It’s been a lot of work in training, in games.”
De Gea rubbed shoulders with players he watched growing up and also managed to catch up with some of his friends, such as Spain colleague Sergio Ramos, the Real Madrid defender.
“It was an amazing night, with all of the great players that had been in the show and the legends as well,” he added. ”It was an unforgettable night. I was there with Ramos as well, with some players from Spain and from England as well, so it was a great evening.
“I spoke with David Seaman a bit, and with Didier Drogba. Ronaldinho was there. Roberto Carlos, Michael Ballack and Ronaldo too. It was very special. I grew up watching them, they were amazing players. They are legends.
”When you are young, you just want to play, to enjoy it with your team-mates. I never thought to win this award, but it’s a pleasure.“
The 27-year-old continues to receive personal recognition for his efforts but his primary focus is on helping United obtain more silverware to add to the Premier League, Europa League, Emirates FA Cup and League Cup winners’ medals he has already landed.
“Yeah [I’ve won a lot of individual awards],” he said. “But the ones that we want to win are the team ones. I think the individual ones are good, but the really special ones are ones you win with your team, with all of them, with Manchester United. This is the most important to win.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment