Share this on WhatsApp




By Esther Egbe

Women’s football advocate, Moses Bako has called on president of Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick to give attention to women’s game in the country.

Bako disclosed to National Daily that he came to seek for support for the proposed Soccer Queens Cup billed for February 2019.

The Soccer Queens coordinator congratulated Pinnick on his re-election as NFF boss and has urged him to give a listening ear to female football.

“Firstly, I want to congratulate Amaju Pinnick on winning a second term in office as NFF’s president, it shows that he is widely accepted,” Bako began.

“He has done a great job in rebranding and repositioning men’s football to where it is today and so I implore him to do the same for the women’s as well.

“Starting with Super Falcons who are billed to compete in next month’s Africa Women Cup of Nations in Ghana, he should see that the players are well motivated, off-and-on the field.

“Falcons have not been paid their qualification bonus, let him start with that, it will serve as a great motivation to the players ahead of the tournament.”

Speaking further, Bako wants the football federation to arrange local friendlies for the team so as to prepare them for the task ahead.

“It’s just a shame that the AWCON is around the corner and I don’t see our ladies playing international friendly matches, nevertheless, they can still take on female clubs in warm-up games.

“Our ladies should not be allowed to play under-age boys teams in preparing for football competitions, it doesn’t speak well of us as a nation.

“Let the NFF as a body solicit for support for Super Falcons, just like they did for the Super Eagles before Russia 2018 World Cup and we will see that the team will go to Ghana and defend their crown in style.

Meanwhile, Nigeria have been drawn in Group B of the eight-team finals alongside South Africa, Zambia and Kenya; whereas Ghana, Algeria, Mali and Cameroon.








Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment