Share this on WhatsApp



 
Popular Kaduna based Islamic scholar, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi has explained why he accompanied former Vice President and Peoples Democratic Party presidential candidate to a reconciliation meeting with former President Olusegun Obasanjo last week.
Gumi on Saturday said when a Muslim hears of anything that will lead to reconciliation between people, it is good for someone to attend if‎ invited.
“Whoever does that Allah will reward him. Most especially if leaders are said to reconcile, if we fail to attend, we have betrayed the religion,” he said.
“They invited us to the meeting because they said they needed scholars and clergymen who are apolitical, meaning they support no particular political party.
“So this was part of the reasons I was selected ‎because they said they need people that have no political interests and can tell them the truth.
“I’m neither an APC or PDP sympathiser which was why they wanted us to witness the reconciliation,” he said.
Recall that Gumi and two Christian clerics were among those who facilitated the reconciliatory meeting.
The Christian clerics are Matthew Kukah of the Catholic Church and David Oyedepo of the Living Faith Church (AKA Winners Chapel).
Asked what the clerics told the two leaders during the meeting, Mr Gumi said they advised them (Atiku and Obasanjo) “to forgive, forget so as to face the future.”
‎”What we told them there was to learn to forgive, forget and to face the future. This was just the message and what we told them. We also said that since we witnessed the reconciliation they need to forge ahead,” he said.
The Islamic scholar also frowned at how some politicians in Nort‎hern Nigeria could not agree to work together for the interest of their states and country.
“It’s shame what is happening here with our politicians, where you hear them fighting each other. Look at what is happening in Kano, Zamfara and other states for example.
“But these people (Atiku and Obasanjo) saw the window for peace and grabbed it and decided to reconcile their differences.
“This is what we need in this country. It is something that others should learn from. Reconciliation is good and the Prophet kicked against whoever is against peaceful reconciliation because such a person has no religion. Only genuine reconciliation between people can lead to development of this country‎.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment