Share this on WhatsApp



Isco, about Cristiano: “We can not be crying for someone who has not wanted to be here”
Isco spoke in the press room in the pre-match against Viktoria Plzen. In the midst of a crisis, with the coach questioned and the club looking for a substitute, the Spaniard took the floor to analyze the bad moment of his team and the future. Change of bench: “We are with the tranquility and responsibility to change the situation. first that we get fucked when we do not win, the responsibility is not only the coach, because the goals are put in. We can give it a shot and we will do it “Lopetegui discussed:” I do not think the press has the power to kick a coach , but the controversy that you want to create there is not, we believe in what we can do, we are very calm and we have confidence in the technician, a million things can happen from now on, but I believe in this team “Get out of the crisis : “Now it’s up to us and the coaching staff to turn the situation around because football is very advantageous, there’s no need to conspire because we’re aware of what we have to do.” Change coach: “Yes it would be crazy. You have to let it work. Because we should throw ourselves at everyone, not just the coach. I trust that together we can make a magnificent year “The costumes:” We are worried because we do not get the results we want. We have to look for that balance that is costing us the matches. “An explanation of what happens:” We are winners, we have shown it and we must not go further. “Turning point:” I hope that tomorrow’s match will be a point of inflexion and with the confidence that the party generates us to be able to change the dynamics “In debt with Julen:” It is true that it gave me confidence with the national team, but I corresponded to it. It is not only mine, but the staff in general “The lack of Christian:” We have asked all the profession, I miss Carva, Bale … We can not find a solution outside this club, if not inside because there are many and very good ones. We can not be crying for someone who has not wanted to be here. “Bad results:” It is not easy to assimilate this bad run, but we have always known how to resurface and we have always received criticism and ended up putting the ball between our legs. We have won four Champions in recent years, many like to see us in a bad situation and we can never be
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment