Share this on WhatsApp



 
The national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has engaged Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State in intense Cold War to regain his hegemony of the South West polity. Tinubu whose political efficacy was relatively whittled during the years of former APC National Chairman, Chief John Oyegun, who was identified to cooperate with anti-Tinubu forces in Abuja, suddenly found his rhythm since Adams Oshiomhole became APC National Chairman.
Oyegun had turned down Tinubu’s prescription of direct primary election to nominate APC governorship candidate in Ekiti State during the crisis that trailed the first primary election, and proceeded with the indirect primary election which was won by Kayode Fayemi.
Oshiomhole, who was anointed by Tinubu for the APC national chairman immediately endorsed the direct primary election for the nomination of governorship candidates of the party. The experimentation of direct primary election in Osun State, the process delivered the expected result, as the primary was won by Tinubu’s anointed candidate.
Shifting to Ogun State, the state party leadership had conducted the primary election in which Adekunle Akinlade was declared winner; Akinlade was widely believed to be sponsored by Governor Amosun; so, his election was rejected.
APC National Working Committee (NWC) led by Oshiomhole, appointed another electoral committee led by Muhammad Ndabawa to conduct fresh primary election in Ogun State in which Dapo Abiodun was declared winner.
Ndabawa had declared that Abiodun got 102, 305 votes to emerge winner. He announced that Akinlade scored 23, 443 votes, Jimi Lawal scored 51, 153 votes, Abimbola Ashiru 29, 764 votes, Senator Gbenga Kaka got 17,771 votes and Abayomi Hunye 9,110 votes.
Oshiomhole subsequently upheld Abiodun, a candidate perceived to be sponsored by Tinubu in Ogun State, as winner of the primary election and candidate of the APC in the 2019 governorship election amidst lingering crisis over the electoral process.
Ogun APC State Chairman, Chief Derin Adebiyi, had at the State Secretariat in Abeokuta, announced that Akinlade scored 190,987 votes out of 201,620 valid votes cast across the 236 wards in the state to win the primary election and emerge as APC candidate for 2019 governorship election in the state. The national leadership, however, nullified the result and conducted fresh primary election which turned out in favour of the national leader.
Amosun was thereafter emasculated while Tinubu was beginning to regain his prominence and leadership of the South West politics.
The Cold War between Amosun and Tinubu was noticeable in the Ondo State Governorship Election crisis won by Rotimi Akeredolu who was said to be supported by the Abuja group from the South West. Amosun was identified as the coordinator of the Abuja group who were fighting for liberty from the regional leader and godfather in the zone, and wanted their leadership independence. It was victory all through as Amosun and other political actors that constitute the Abuja Force had the cooperation of former APC national chairman, Oyegun. The power tussle was easy for them then; now, the pendulum is swinging to the other side, and tinu8bu is beginning to gain the upper hand with the coming of Oshiomhole as APC national chairman.
Meanwhile, Amosun appeared to have been pushed beyond limit. Reliable source revealed to National Daily that the Ogun State Governor consulted former President Olusegun Obasanjo last week in Abeokuta to discuss the politics of the state and preparation for the 2019 governorship election. Obasanjo and Amosun have both been in support of power rotation to the Yewa/Awori zone of the state. The zone is said not to have produced any governor for the state since 1999.
Amosun’s meeting with Obasanjo caused tension in the APC, culminating into President Muhammadu Buhari, seeking audience with the Ogun Governor.
However, all the candidates for the Senate, House of Representatives, and the House of Assembly were said to be loyalists of Governor Amosun; only the governorship ticket that is being taken away.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment