Share this on WhatsApp

Former Technical Adviser of FC Ifeanyi Ubah, Yaw Preko has hinted that he he wants a return to Nigeria Professional Footbal League, NPFL coaching role suggesting he would welcome the opportunity to manage any of the top clubs in Nigeria.

Yaw Preko managed IfeanyiUbah for almost two seasons but he couldn’t convince the owner, Dr Patrick Ifeanyi Ubah of his abilities and potentials during his stint.

Preko could not defend IfeanyiUbah’s Federation Cup title they won in 2016 after crashing out in the semi final to Niger Tornadoes in the following edition.

The Ghanaian tactician went back to his native land to manage the Ghana’s U17 national team losing the U17 zonal championship final qualification match to Golden Eaglets of Nigeria.

Preko also managed a Ghanaian top division side (name) during his return to Ghana.

He described the Nigerian league as more competitive than his country’s has disclosed that a number of NPFL clubs were looking for his services but would take his time decide on his next destination.

“Yes, its true, I’m hearing some clubs are showing interests through my representative, but nothing concrete for now, why not, I’ve been there and I know how it is in Nigeria, but we are weighing options for now, and soon will chose a better one.

Preko disclosed that he rejected the offer to take over Enyimba after leaving IfeanyiUbah to take over his country’s U17 assignment but would jump at any befitting offer this time.

“When I left FCIU around November, I could have joined Enyimba for the new season when I newly to took over the U17 in Ghana, but I couldn’t make up my mind, they (Enyimba) even gave me two weeks but I couldn’t give them concrete response due to my situations with the national team then, but now a couple of clubs are interested in Nigeria, we are looking at which one is better, which one will suit my style, we’ll see.

“The NPFL is very interesting, its different to our league here, its more competitive and challenging, its enjoyable as well and as a foreigner you will be able to impact your knowledge into others, learn new ideas and meeting different great people on the job, you will be able to show your class in the midst of bunch of Nigerian coaches and they accept, so I think going back will be good for the work, its new environment where you learn new things,” he said.

Asked of his preferable next place to work between both countries, Preko noted that both countries were good for him but relished a prospect of grinding out decent results in a challenging league like NPFL.

“I like working in Ghana and I like working in Nigeria, I can say Nigeria is my second home, their league is highly challenging and entertaining, the only thing in Nigeria is the long road of traveling distance for games that is the killing one, you never get use to it but you make a way round it and make the best out of it.”

Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment