Share this on WhatsApp



APC Electoral Panel chairman in the just concluded primary in Edo has accused Senator Shehu Sani of offering the panel N10 million to affirm his automatic ticket.
Shehu Sani But in a swift reaction, Senator Sani dismissed the allegation as “condensed lie and falsehood,” saying that he had no need to offer any body any bribe.
According to Matthew Iduoriyekemwen, Sani offered the bribe through a member of the committee .
“The only person in Kaduna State who offered me money was Senator Shehu Sani, through one of my committee members who was told to inform me that N10m gift was set aside for the committee chairman,” the chairman told journalists on Friday.
“Even after the primaries, before the announcement of results, Senator Shehu and his men put pressure on us to come and take the money. He called me several times, but we made it clear to him that we don’t need cash inducement at all.
The former majority leader of Edo State House of Assembly said he was ready to forward the telephone number of his committee member, through whom the pledge of N10m offer was announced to the leadership of the panel.
However, Senator Sani said he had no reason to offer anybody any bribe.
Sani’s political adviser, Suleiman Ahmed, said the allegation was the handiwork of some unnamed officials of the Kaduna government bent on tarnishing the name of the senator.
“The distinguished Senator never delegated anyone to act on his behalf as far as the mischievous allegations are concerned.
“The distinguished senator had made it publicly known before the illegal primaries that he would not partake in an exercise that clearly violated the rules of the party and a court order obtained by the Governor’s candidate Uba Sani.
He said the APC primary election committee was hosted and monopolized by the state governor’s aide in a hotel.
“It’s inconceivable that the senator will contemplate engaging in such an unwholesome and immoral act.”
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment