Share this on WhatsApp



On October 2, Kaduna Gov. Nasir el-Rufai sent a President Muhammadu Buhari a memo chronicling the many sins of Kaduna Central Sen. Shehu Sani, and why the constituents will not forgive the senator.
The effect of the memo just kicked in, and Sani lost the APC ticket in the Saturday primary, thus ending his ambition for a return as primaries and conflict resolution among parties end October 7.
In the memo entitled ‘Forwarding of a compendium of Shehu Sani’s denigration of President Buhari, the APC and the Governor of Kaduna State’, the governor chronicled the activities of the Kaduna State senator since he was elected into the Senate.
He warned Buhari who has been making effort to resolve the feud between the governor and the senator that Buhari’s Presidency between 2019 and 2023 would suffer serious attacks from the National Assembly with people like Sani there.
“I wish to forward to your Excellency this compendium of the serial acts of denigration and disrespect Shehu Sani has exhibited towards your person and office, our party and the government it produced in Kaduna State,” the governor wrote.
“This compendium exposes the litany of disloyalty and disrespect of Shehu Sani.
“He (Sani) accused the government of being corrupt: ‘When it comes to fighting corruption in the National Assembly and the judiciary and in the larger Nigerian sector, the President uses insecticide, but when it comes to fighting corruption within the Presidency, they use deodorants’.’’
el-Rufai also stated Shehu accused the Federal Government of faking the abduction and release of the Dapchi girls, quoting him to have said, ‘Since Dapchi has been turned into a Sahelian Tinsel town, then Steve Spielberg or Spike Lee or Jerry Bruckheimer of the Pirates of the Caribbean needs to visit, explore the possibility of a blockbuster’.
He alleged Sani mocked Buhari when the President explained, during a trip to Benue State, that the Federal Government handled the Dapchi episode better than Jonathan handled Chibok.
According to him, Shehu Sani wrote, ‘The Spiderman, who couldn’t protect Chibok blasted by the Spiderman, who couldn’t protect Dapchi from alien invasion’.
El-Rufai added that when the President travelled to London in April 2018 for medical consultation, Sani ridiculed the trip on his Facebook page, by saying, ‘Voyage to London; season 3’.
The memo further read, “In September 2017, he (Sani) derided the security operation against IPOB, saying, ‘Deadly python dance in the South-East is provocative, unnecessary and should be stopped’.
“In May 2018, he (Sani) lamented what he said was Buhari’s three years of failure to protect human lives.
“In the same month, he wrote that ‘Baba should protect his testicles from any man who always bends to greet him’.
“In a July 2018 interview with The Guardian, he (Sani) said ‘Nigerians should blame Buhari, governors for the APC crisis’.”
According to El-Rufai, he would have heeded Buhari’s request for the recall of Sani sometime in January this year but for the huge cost such process would require.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment