Share this on WhatsApp




General Superintendent of Christ Redemption Bible Church (CRBC), Pastor John Oluwadare has assured Nigerians not to lose hope in the Nigerian project, assuring them that the 2019 general elections will be peaceful despite the gloomy picture painting by many.
Speaking at a press conference to herald the church’s 21st convention with the theme: ‘Multiple Grace’ at the weekend, Pastor Oluwadare said Nigeria would be great again if Nigerians unify with one purpose.
Urging Nigerians not to lose hope in the country, the cleric said God has a special interest in Nigeria and gave assurances that if the nation returns to God, things will start to look better for the masses.
“What we need to do is to call for a genuine national prayer, and I can assure you that Nigeria will be better than any nations of the world, if we all go back to God in prayers.”
He also cautioned Nigerians to stop condemning political leaders, saying the people should rather continue to pray for them, asking God to direct their paths as they lead the country.
According to him, the only way out of the present quagmire is to go to God in prayers, adding that the church’s 21st convention would devote more time in praying for the country and its leaders.
“This year’s convention will centre on three important things.  First, there will be revival, leading to the salvation of souls both within the community and beyond. Secondly, we will be praying for the country, asking God to intervene and bless Nigeria.”
The cleric also said the convention would be used to raise funds for the development of its camp ground along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. He said the camp ground when fully developed will aid the church in its large scale evangelism, touching as many lives as possible in the various empowerment programmes it has been designed to offer.
Also speaking at the conference, Chairman of the Convention Planning Committee, Pastor Odeniran said as part of the 21st anniversary convention, the church will be organizing various empowerment programmes to build the income base of everyone that attends.
 The convention which begins on the 17th and ends with a mega thanksgiving service on the 21st of October, 2018 will be centred on winning souls, equipping ministers of God for greater exploits and praying for Nigeria.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment