Share this on WhatsApp
As we all await the final departure of Julen Lopetegui. Who was sacked by Spain for taking the Madrid job before the Russia World Cup kickedoff.

As many felt the decision to take up Real Madrid’s job with his right hand while he had the Spanish national job in his left hand was a terrible mistake.

And it appears that making terrible mistakes is what the former Madrid goalkeeper has done well with the Madrid team.

From before the Clasico, he didn’t know how to motivate his players in such a big game, and picked a team full of players far from their best such as Raphael Varane and Gareth Bale.

The substitutions, with the exception of Lucas Vazquez, were too little, too late and the team were crying out for a second change much earlier.

As much as the players publicly support their coach, it seems clear that the message isn’t reaching them.

What the coach said in the hours before the game was no more than admitting that he did not have a response.

It’s incomprehensible that the players take the blame and confess that they didn’t turn up, nor that respect is earnt and not imposed, as Sergio Ramos said of Antonio Conte.

Until now, at least, Lopetegui wasn’t sure how to win that respect.

Leaving Vinicius Junior to the side can only be considered as a point of distance between the coach and the club, as his management saw him left out entirely against Barcelona.

Lopetegui must also explain why he believes Alvaro Odriozola to be the club’s fourth choice right-back when only months earlier he had been called up to his Spain squad.

Against Barcelona, Nacho started in his position and then Lucas Vazquez came on as a substitute.

Even more decisive was his decision to stick by players who are alarmingly out of form, such as Varane after his superb World Cup, or Bale, who is looking short of confidence and has been struggling for fitness since the Madrid derby.

Against Barcelona, Real Madrid didn’t even put up a fight until the second half, much like against Levante and in other games this season.

At half-time something changes, the team is moved and begins to paint a different picture, but not enough to bring in a strong option beyond a logically tired Isco or an out of sorts Bale.

Beyond the statistics, Lopetegui can’t get the best out of his key players like Toni Kroos, Luka Modric and even Marcelo.

It’s clear that he was unable to inject Real Madrid with the same energy and success that he had with the Spanish national team.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment