Share this on WhatsApp



 
In other to enhance the safety of its drivers and riders across 38 countries, including Nigeria, and also to increase transparency and peace of mind for all users, Uber has launched new safety kit app.
The new toolkits, which over the years will be rolled out to millions of riders, drivers and delivery-partners using app across Europe, Middle East and Africa, features Safety Centre, Trusted Contacts, Share Trip, emergency assistance button and customisable speed alerts.
According to a release by the company, the emergency button feature would allow operators to connect directly to private emergency services and security response when needed through a third party private security supplier.
With the Trusted Contacts, Riders can now easily designate five friends or family members as “trusted contacts” and, with a single tap, share their trip information which are easily customisable in their trip sharing preferences.
The Safety Centre app housed safety information where users can find information on some of the key existing safety tools in the app, including Uber’s 24/7 team, information on the driver and the car, trip GPS-tracking and our rating and feedback system. The speed alert feature reminds drivers and delivery partners to maintain a safe speed within the posted speed limits.
Since launching the app, Uber has provided millions of people with technology that allows them to get a ride at the push of a button, track every trip with GPS technology and report any issues 24/7 with a dedicated safety team. With the introduction of new safety features, the company aims to double down on safety and help make the Uber community safer.
“With more than 15 million trips on the Uber app every day, there is nothing more important than the safety of riders, drivers and couriers. Over the last year we’ve been working to develop innovative products that increase transparency, accountability and peace of mind for all users. The rollout of our new Safety Toolkit features across Europe, Middle East and Africa is the next step in making sure that we’re helping everyone stay safe and connected, wherever you might be,” says Sachin Kansal, Uber’s Global Head of Safety Product.
Uber’s CEO Dara Khosrowshahi has made safety a top priority for 2018. Since joining the company, he has introduced a number of changes including Injury Protection cover for driver’s, delivery-partners and riders, driving hour limits and Driver Share my Trip.
Share this on WhatsApp
		Leave a comment